March 2021. Fear's wins Blue a container ship off the
In most places, this would have caused a minor
But in the Suez Canal, it was a global crisis.
This vessel wasn't just blocking other ships. It was obstructing the flow of international trade through one of the world's
The side of the Suez Canal has been of interest to rulers of this region, as far back as the second millennium be
to move goods between Asia and the Mediterranean Basin. Traders had to traverse the narrow isthmus separating the Red Sea and the Nile, journeying and Camelbound
A maritime passage between the Indian Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea would bypass this trip on
and throughout the 16th century, multiple powers attempted to construct
But their plans were obstructed by cost, political strife, and the
In 1798, interest in building a canal was rekindled. This time, attracting attention.
Over the fallen decades, individuals from Austria, Italy, Britain and France pitched their
At the time, Egypt was a territory of the Ottoman Empire, which was resistant to these
But Egypt's political and economic autonomy was gradually increasing, and its government was eager to
Once I ate Pasha, came into power in 1854. He approved a plan from the Enterpriseing and Manipulative French Diplomé.
signed in 1854 and 1856. A pair of concessions gave Devasets authority to establish the Suez Canal Company and finance it by selling shares.
The contracts between Said Pasha and the Canal Company also promised a workforce of hundreds of thousands
beginning in 1862, about 20,000 laborers, or forcibly recruited every month, digging the canal and harsh desert conditions without
diseases like cholera, rain, rampant and workers twilled under the
The estimates of those who die during construction range into the thousands.
In 1864, the new Egyptian ruler, Ismayal Pasha, put an end to the coerced Egyptian labor, but he's still pressed for
Foreign workers from all over Europe and the Middle East, labored alongside directors and bucket excavators to remove 74
population of workers required infrastructure to deliver drinking water and other supplies, giving rise to a flourishing economy of restaurants.
amidst the bustle, we'll burn three new cities with multi-ethnic populations. Port Said on the northern Mediterranean shore is my alias.
The construction site bypassed the Nile and ran directly from ports IEAD.
and after years of work, the streams of the two seas finally began merging.
The finished canal was 164 kilometers long with a width of 56 meters at the surface and it was officially inaugurated on November 17th, 1869. While it struggled financially during its first few years,
It also facilitated the migration of numerous marine species, dramatically changing local ecosystems.
Over the decades, traffic through the
but in 1875 financial issues forced Egypt to sell much of its stock in the canal company, allowing
It was only in 1956 that control of the canal fully reverted to Egypt when it was nationalized.
This move sparked a military standoff between Egypt and Britain, France.
But once resolved, it transformed the canal into a major source of each of Sniational Revenue and helped
Today nearly 30% of all global ship traffic passes through the Suez Canal, totaling over 20,000 ships in 2021. However, the incident of the ever-given is a stark reminder.
can now.
Egypt.
each of
ships in
along the Nile River and what is now northern Sudan. Lay the ancient civilizia
Though they were once conquered by a powerful neighbor, the kings and queens of Kush would go on to successfully challenge two of the most dominant empires in history. From 1500 to 1100 BCE, Egypt controlled Kush.
The civilization of Kush was more than a thousand years old at that time.
Its early capital city at Kerma had impressive temples, palaces and houses, including a massive mud brick temple structure that had a chapel deep inside.
Rich gold mines helped the Kushites build a flourishing commercial network, making bronze weapons and tools and trading materials like incense, animal skins, ivory.
The tide started to change for Kush as Egypt descended into civil war.
By 750 BCE Egypt was divided into local kingdoms with
The Kushai King Pianki saw an opportunity.
He led his navy, flanked by horsemen and archers, up the Nile to the gate
As Pianke's army constructed sea-dramed and battle towers, the city's ruler sent his wives and daughters to negotiate, not with Pianke, but with the women of his royal household, later known as Kandike, who were extremely
At the end of a long siege, Pianki entered the conquered city and bitterly criticized the conditions in
from there. Piyunky and the Kushite forces conquered the Egyptian capital.
Now he installed his sister, Amunerdus, as priestess of the great God-amune in the Egyptian city of Leeds, and left other Khashite officials.
His successors extended control all the way to the Nile Delta.
This was a high point for the Empire of Kush. Trade thrived and they built magnificent temples, palaces, and pyramid
that the Assyrian army was approaching Egypt into annual campaigns.
When the Assyrians began to encroach on trade routes near Jerusalem, the Khashite King to
The Assyrians defeated him with the help of some rebelling Egyptian princes and drove him out of Egypt in the 7th century.
The Kushites continued to rule in their homeland for nearly 1,000 years. That were prosperous.
They moved their capital farther south to the city of Merewe, where they built temples to a new god called
They built new cities in the Savannah south of the Sahara Desert. Some of which contain huge reservoirs.
When the Roman Empire conquered Egypt in 31 BCE, Khashite armies again traveled
She led them to success in battle against the Romans. Capturing the bronze head of a statue of the Roman Emperor Augustus.
they barriated under the doorway of the temple in the capital so that worshippers would step on it as they crossed the
After brokering peace with the Romans, Klish continued to
Over time, however, groups of people called the Noba, graded from the West, and trade routes were disrupted by the rising king.
around 350 CE, the Oxamite King Sacked Motore.
Since then, some have argued that Kush's history has been overlooked by generations of European and American scholars, who promoted the idea that Egypt was part of the origin of Western civilization.
Today, there's still much to learn about Kush, including a writing system we have.
phone.
When I'm out of the grocery store or maybe a restaurant or the park with my son, he's six and a half. People will stop us and mention that
use that opportunity to chop it up with him and often when they're done talking with him, they'll mention that he thinks he's smart and engaged.
When those people walk away, the thought that comes to my mind is that I hope they remember meeting him as a child when they see him again as a grown man.
This thought comes to my mind because I've written two books about race and racism in the United States and this kind of work can
One of the things that I've learned is that Americans have an orientation toward progress. And this context, what that means is that we often celebrate the distance between where we were.
But that same orientation can bind us from the gap between where we are and where we could.
The other thing that I've learned about Americans is that we have a very, very narrow understanding of racism. Mostly in the minds and hearts of people.
And this really narrow definition can constrain our opportunities to produce some more racially egalitarian society.
We like to hunt for races in distance ourselves from people who say mean things about whole groups of people or who idealize the 1950s, but the fact of the matter is
Now, I'm not saying that everyone here is the racist, but what I am saying is that everyone here has the capacity and perhaps even the propensity to live their life in a way, to make decisions, to rely on bias.
So people say, well, you do all this work about it.
and what's the answer.
And I say that the first thing we might need to do is to come to a shared understanding about what recent basis
History shows that racist have had the upper hand in deciding who the racist are and what racism is and it's never been where the things are
But maybe if we come together and come to a shared and perhaps a precise definition of what racism is, we can work toward creating a society where mothers like me aren't in constant fear of their children's lives. I'd like to dispel three myths about racism on our trip toward mutual understanding. First,
But there are other states and regions that are competing for the title.
For example, if we look at the most segregated states in terms of where black kids go to school, we'll see
there's some out west in the Midwest and in the
where we live.
or if we look at states with the biggest racial disparities in terms of prison populations, we see that none of
where we live.
My colleague Rebecca Kreitz, her an I, looked at a standard matter of racial attitudes, a prejudice. And we found that in the 1990s, states in the
But this geography has evolved and things have changed.
By 2016, we found that the decoders in Nebraska states in the Midwest and the Northeast were competing.
Now, I'm not saying that one state is more racist than another, but what I am saying is that every state might have its own special
and it doesn't have to be like that.
Most of the inequalities that we see in our day to day lives happen at the state in
But that means that we don't have to go to all the way to Congress to make change in our communities. We can simply hold our city, our county, our state legislators to task.
nith to. We're not that good at hunting for racist. Remember that
time.
I'm not saying that.
Well, people were going back to your books to look for things that were obviously racist. Fewer people were looking into the current day policy scances of
So how many of us might have supported a candidate who was willing to let neighborhoods succeed from their district so that kids could go to all white schools?
or how many of us might have supported a ballot measure that systematically reduced some group's chances.
or how many of us might have focused on the behavior of black mothers, rather than doctors or healthcare systems and policies when we learn about the huge racial disparities and maternity
It doesn't have to be like this.
We hit do something different.
We could scrutinize the behaviors of the rule.
If you believe that when all the grandmas and this is sippy die, that racism is going to go with them, you are in for a big disappointment. We like to think that young people are going to do the hard work of eradicating racism, but there's some things that we might.
but we also know that they don't live diverse lives.
Research shows that the average white American literally has one
And what that means is that most don't have
sociologists like Sata Mayurga show that even when well-mitting white folks move to diverse neighborhoods, they don't necessarily have positive interactions. No less.
My research with Professor Christopher Desan to show that when we ask white millennials, the racial attitudes and policy preferences, that there's sometimes just as in other times, even more racial
When we ask them about the things that are important to them, they don't have any particular sense of urgency around questions.
How do we get like this?
Well, you do all this work about racism, what's the answer? And I say that the first thing we might need to do
The research shows that white parents in particular will either choose to not talk about issues of racism to their kids in order to protect them from a harsh racial reality or they still color blind lessons.
So it's kind of like how some of your parents might have given you books about puberty, so they don't have to talk about the words and the bees, and then you try to connect all the dots
like that.
It's like that.
we can do better.
We can have heart conversations with our kids so that they don't grow up like many of us did thinking that talking about racism makes you a racist. It doesn't. And so that we can prevent
Remember a long, long time ago in 2008 when we were all
But in order to do that, we'd have to come together to have a shared definition of racism, not just in the matter of hearts and minds, but in systems, policies, rules, decisions made over and over again to marginalize some people.
So we could ask harder questions of candidates about their stance as on racial inequality before we throw
We could buy a car or buy a car business with practices.
We could talk to our kids about racism.
We could figure out our state's special brand of racism and work to eradicate it.
Sure, it will be hard, but the fact of the matter is, is that someone
Thank you.
They don't
you
I
you
We're all
We
who
here. I was giving all the
Uh-huh.
racist.
most
Stay safe.
it.
all.
Thank you.
White people.
What?
you
