as a child I had many fears.
I was afraid of lightning, insects, loud noises, and costume characters.
I also had two very severe foviors of doctors and injections.
During my struggles to escape from our family doctor, I would become so physically combative that he actually slapped me in the face to stun me.
I was six.
I was all fighter flight back then and holding me down for a simple vaccine took three or four adults including my parents.
Later, our family moved from New York to Florida just as I was starting high school and being the new kid at the Perocule school, not knowing anyone and being worried about fitting in on the very first day of school, a teacher takes role and calls out Ann Marie Albano to which I respond, here she laughs and says, oh precious, stand up.
Say D-O-G, and I respond to, the class broke out in laughter along with the teacher.
and so it went because she had many more words to humiliate me with.
I went home sobbing, distraught, and begging to be sent back to New York or to some nunnery.
I did not want to go back to that school again.
No way.
My parents listened and told me that they would investigate with the monceiner back in New York, but that I had to keep going in each day. So I'd have the attendance record to transfer to ninth grade on statin island.
All of this was before email and cell phones. So over the next several weeks, supposedly there were letters being sent between the arts diocese of Manhattan and Miami and with the Vatican. And each day I'd go into school, crying, and come home crying, to which my mother would give me an update from some cardinal or bishop to keep her going to school while we find a response. Was I naive or what?
Well, after a couple of weeks, one day while waiting for the school bus, I met a girl named Debbie, and she introduced me to her friends.
and they became my friends. And well, the Pope was off the hook.
I began to calm down and settle in.
My past three decades of studying anxiety in children stems partly from my own search for self-understanding.
and I've learned much.
For young people, anxiety is the most common childhood psychiatric condition.
These disorders start early by age four and by adolescents, one in 12 youths are severely impaired in their ability to function at home in school and with peers.
These kids are so frightened, worried, literally physically uncomfortable due to their anxiety.
It's difficult for them to pay attention in school. Relax and have fun. Make friends and do all the things the kids should be doing.
Exiety can create misery for the child and the parents are front and center in witnessing their child's distress.
As I met more and more children with anxiety through my work, I had to go back to mom and dad and ask them a couple of questions.
Why did you hold me down when I was so frightened of getting injections and forced them on me?
And why tell me these tall tales to make me go to school when I was so worried about being embarrassed again? They said, our hearts broke for you each time. But we knew that these were things that you had to do.
We had to risk you becoming upset while we waited for you to get used to the situation with time and with more experience.
You had to get vaccinated.
you had to go to school. Little did my parents know, but they were doing more than inoculating me from the measles.
They were also inoculating me from a lifetime of anxiety disorders.
Accessive anxiety in a young child is like a super bug and infectious. Even multiplying such that many of the youth that I see come in with more than one anxiety condition occurring at the same time.
For example, they'll have specific phobia, plus separation anxiety, plus social anxiety all together.
left untreated, anxiety in early childhood can lead to depression by adolescence.
It can also contribute to substance abuse and to suicideality.
My parents were not therapists.
They didn't know any psychologists.
All they knew is that these situations may have been uncomfortable for me, but they were not harmful.
My excessive anxiety would harm me more over the long term if they let me avoid and escape these situations and not learn how to tolerate occasional distress.
So in essence, mom and dad were doing their own homegrown version of exposure therapy, which is the central and key component of cognitive behavioral treatment for anxiety.
My colleague and I conducted the largest randomized controlled study of the treatments of anxiety in children ages 7 to 17.
We found that child-focused cognitive behavioral exposure therapy, or medication with a selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor, are effective for 60% of treated youth.
And their combination gets 80% of kids well within three months.
This is all good news.
And if they stay on the medication or do monthly exposure treatments as we did in the length of the study, they could stay well for upwards of a year.
However, after this treatment study ended, we went back and did a follow-up study of the participants, and we found that many of these kids relapsed over time.
And despite the best of evidence-based treatments, we also found that for about 40% of the kids with anxiety, they remain dill throughout the course of the time.
We've thought a lot about these results.
What were we missing?
We've had prophesies that because we were focusing on just child-focused intervention, perhaps there's something important about addressing the parents and involving them in treatment too.
Studies from my own lab and from colleagues around the world have shown a consistent trend. Well, meaning parents are often inadvertently drawn into the cycle of anxiety.
They give in and they make too many accommodations for their child and they let their children escape challenging situations.
I want you to think about it like this. Your child comes into the house to you, crying in tears.
their five or six years of age.
Nobody at school liked me.
these kids are mean
No one would play with me. How do you feel seeing your child so upset?
What do you do?
Natural parenting instinct is to comfort that child, sue them, protect them, and fix the situation.
calling the teacher to intervene or the other parents to arrange play dates, that may be fine at age five.
But what do you do if your child keeps coming home day after day in tears?
Do you still fix things for the mid-age? 10, 14.
For children as they are developing, they invariably are going to be encountering challenging situations. Sleepovers or reports, a challenging test that pops up, trying out for a sports team or a spot in a school play, conflicts with peers.
All these situations involve risk of not doing well, not getting what they want. Risk of maybe making mistakes or being embarrassed.
For kids with anxiety who don't take risks in engage, they then don't learn how to manage these types of situations.
Right?
because skills develop with exposure over time, repeated exposure to everyday situations that kids encounter. Self-soothing skills are the ability to calm oneself down when upset. Problem-solving skills, including the ability to resolve conflicts with others, delay of gratification, or the ability to keep your efforts going despite the fact that you have to wait over time to see what happens.
These and many other skills are developing in children who take risks and engage.
and self-efficacy takes shape, which simply put is the belief in oneself that you can overcome challenging situations.
For kids with anxiety who escape and avoid these situations and get other people to do them for them, they become more and more anxious with time while less confident in themselves.
contrary to their peers who don't suffer with anxiety, they come to believe that they are incapable of managing these situations.
They think that they need someone, someone like their parents, to do things for them.
Now, while the natural parenting instinct is to comfort and protect and reassure kids. In 1930, the psychiatrist Alfred Adler had already cautioned parents that we can love a child as much as we wish, but we must not make that child dependent.
He advised parents to begin training kids from the very beginning to stand on their own two feet.
He also cautioned that if children get the impression that their parents have nothing better to do than be at their back and call, they would gain a false idea of love.
for children with anxiety in this day and age, they are always calling their parents or texting to stress calls at all hours of the day and night.
So if children with anxiety don't learn the proper coping mechanisms when young, what happens to them when they grow up?
I run groups for parents of young adults with anxiety disorders.
These youth are between eight, the ages of 18 and 28.
They are mostly living at home, dependent on their parents.
Many of them may have attended school and college.
Some have graduated.
Almost all are not working just staying at home and not doing much of anything.
They don't have meaning for relationships with others and they are very, very dependent on their parents to do all sorts of things for them.
their parents still make their doctor's appointments for them.
They call the kids old friends and beg them to come visit.
They do the kids laundry and cook for them.
and they are in great conflict with their young adult because the anxiety has flourished, but the youth has not.
these parents feel enormous guilt, but then resentment and then more guilt.
Okay, how about some good news?
If parents and key figures in a child's life can help the child assist them to confront their fears and learn how to problem solve, then it is more likely that the children are going to develop their own internal coping mechanisms for managing their anxiety.
We teach parents now to be mindful in the moment and think about their reaction to their child's anxiety.
We ask them, look at the situation and ask, what is this situation at hand?
How threatening is it to my child?
And what do I ultimately want them to learn from it? Now of course, we want parents to listen very carefully because if a child is being bullied seriously or put in harm's way, we want parents to intervene absolutely.
But in typical everyday anxiety-producing situations, parents can be most helpful to their child if they remain calm and matter-affect in warm. If they validate the child's feelings, but then help the child assist them in planning how the child is going to manage the situation.
And then this is key to actually have the child deal with the situation themselves.
Of course, it is heartbreaking to watch a child suffer as my parents told me years later.
When you see your child suffering, but you think you could swoop in and save them from the pain of it, that's everything, right?
That's what we want to do.
But whether we are young or old, excessive anxiety leads us to overestimate risk and distress while underestimating our ability to cope.
We know that we're pitted exposure to what we fear weakens anxiety while building resources and resilience.
My parents were on to something.
Today's hyper-enxious youth are not being helped by overly protective parenting.
Comnists and confidence are not just emotions.
They are coping skills that parents and children can learn.
Thank you.
A mountain separating two lakes.
A room, papered floor to ceiling, with bridal satins.
the lead of an immense snuff ball.
These seeming me unrelated images, take us on a tour of a sperm whale's head in Herman Melville's Moby Dick. On the surface, the book is the story of Captain A. Ham's hunt for revenge against Moby Dick, a white whale who bit off his leg.
But though the book features pirates, typhoons, high-speed chases, and giant squid, you shouldn't expect to conventional seafaring adventure.
Instead, it's a multilayered exploration of not only the intimate details of life aboard a wailing ship, but also subjects from across human and natural history. By turns playful, and tragic, humorous, and urgent.
The narrator guiding us through these explorations is a common sailor called Ishma.
Ishmael starts out telling his own story as he prepares to escape the damp and drizzling November in his soul by going to see
But after he befriends a Pacific island, a creek, and joins A Habs crew aboard the people. Ishmael becomes more of a non-nissen guide for the reader than a traditional character.
While Ahab obsesses over revenge and first mate Starbucks tries to reason with him, Ishmael takes us on his own quest for meaning throughout the whole universe, not excluding its sub-ups. In his telling, life's biggest questions loom large, even in the smallest detail.
Like his narrator, Melville was a restless and curious spirit, who gained an unorthodox education, working as a sailor on a series of grueling voyages around the world in his youth.
He published Moby Dick in 1851 when the United States wailing industry was at its height.
Nan-tucket, where the P-quad set sail, was the epicenter of this lucrative and bloody global industry, which decimated the world's way of populations.
and usually for his time. Melville doesn't shy away from the ugly side of this industry, even taking the whales' perspective at one point when he speculates on how terrifying the huge shadows of the ships must be to the creature swimming below.
The author's first hand familiarity with wailing is evident over and over again in Ishmael's vivid descriptions.
In one chapter, the skin of a whale's penis becomes protective clothing for a crewman.
chapters with titles as unpromising, has system and buckets, become some of the novels most rewarding, as Ishmael compares bailing out a sperm whale's head to mid-wifery, which leads to reflections on plethora.
Tangling whale lines provoke witty reflections on the ever present peraus, entangling all more.
He draws on diverse branches of knowledge like zoology, astronomy, nor economics, mythology and teachings from a range of religious and cultural traditions.
The book experiments with writing style as much as subject matters.
In one monologue, Aha challenges Moby Dick in Shakespearean style. Towards thee I roll, thou all destroying but unconquering whale. To the last I grapple with thee, from hell's heart, I stab at thee. For hate's sake I spit my last breath of thee. One chapter is written as a place-cript, where members of the P-CODs multi-ethnic crew chime in individually and in chorus.
African and Spanish sailors trade insults while a Tahitian semen longs for home Chinese and Portuguese crew members call for a dance and one young boy prophesies disaster
In another chapter, Ishmael sings the process of decanting whale oil in epic style as the ship pictures and rolls in the mid-night sea and the castes rumbling like landside.
A book so wide ranging has something for everyone.
Readers have found religious and political allegory, existential inquiry, social set-up, economic analysis, and representations of American imperialism, industrial relations, and racial
As it shmail chases meaning and airhab chases the white whale, the book explores the opposing forces of optimism and uncertainty, curiosity and fear that characterised human existence no matter what it is we're chasing.
Through Moby Dick's many pages, Melville invites his readers to leap into the unknown, to join him on the hunt for the ungraspable phantom of life.
So in May 6th of 2019, the sun was shining, the sky was blue, clouds were that puffy white.
There's a perfect spring day.
I was walking back to my office and my phone rang.
and it was one of my lieutenant's.
I said, hey John.
How are you? He said, sir, I'm good.
But I've got some bad news. You said our executive officer died that weekend.
We went back and forth as what do you mean? What are you talking about? I asked them what happened.
He said, sir, he killed himself. I walked around my office for a couple hours and a complete fog trying to understand what had happened. Why?
I had just communicated with him a few months earlier.
and I had no idea that this officer was in trouble.
And I fault myself as a leader for not having known that.
I went on this process of trying to figure out why what's happening in the veteran community, why are these things going on?
I read reports from the Department of Veteran Affairs, Department of Defense. I've read national studies on mental health and the issues associated with it.
I'm gonna share with you some of the things I found out.
Department of Veterans has taken the lead on Veterans suicide and it's actually their number one priority.
Based on reports they have and the numbers that I've calculated between 2001 and 2019 during the time of the global war in terror, my approximation is there's 115,000 veterans who have died by their own hands.
I also looked at Department of Defense report that list casualties.
This particular report lists the casualties from October of 2001, specifically to November 18th of last year.
During that time frame in a global war on terror, there have been 5,440 active duty members killed in action.
So by my numbers of 15,000 approximate suicide, 5,440 killed in action.
What does that mean to me?
We have approximately 21 veterans ending their lives by their own hand for everyone that has killed by an enemy combatant.
to staggering number.
These national studies that deal with mental health tell us that if you have any type of genetic mental health issue within your family that can be passed on or if something has happened to you in your childhood that was traumatic, your ability to deal with post-traumatic stress disorder or PTSD significantly decreases.
They also tell us that if you want to have a full evaluation, determine if somebody has PTSD, you need to have a minimum of one hour interview with a mental health expert that's trained to detect what PTSD is, determine if you suffer from it.
Now let me talk about what happens when you enter into military.
When you join the armed forces, you're going to go through a medical exam. You're going to take a physical fitness test. You're going to take a drug test. You're going to take a vocational test so they can figure out what you're good at and hopefully place you in that type of job category.
But would you believe that with approximately 115,000 suicides over the last 20 years? And the data that we know from the national studies on how to determine if somebody's going to be able to cope with post-mine stress disorder, we still don't have a standardized mental health evaluation for our recruits entering into the service.
That's something I think that needs to change.
Number two, when you leave the service, when I left the service in 2003, I had to attend some mandatory classes about two days worth of classes and then I was on my way.
Today it's a little different.
Today you'll actually get a call. If you're on what we call terminal leave or pay time off that you're trying to use up before you actually are fully discharged.
I talked to one veteran who got a call.
He was on his way home from work and the only thing he could think of was how quick can I get off this and I think the call last may be 10 or 15 minutes.
But yet the national studies tell us it needs to be an in person one hour interview.
I think that's something that we can improve upon.
There's another thing that the Department of Veteran Affairs talked about in the reports.
They said that our service members, their self-medicating, tend to be at a significantly higher risk of suicide.
So those veterans are self-medicating with alcohol or drug abuse. In fact, the Department of Veteran Affairs has classified opioid use disorder or OUD as one of the epidemics.
So as I talk to Marines for my unit and try to learn more about it, I start to find out some really, really alarming things.
I had a Marine who came back from Iraq and he went to the hospital for a back pain and he was prescribed some opioids.
He also suffered from post-max stress disorder.
He became addicted to these painkillers because not only did it mask the pain in his back, but it helped him to cope with some of the horrific things he had to see experience and do over in the Middle East.
and he eventually overdosed.
Another challenge we have is that when you're on active duty, you are under the Department of Defense.
And so all of your doctors, all your healthcare is in that category.
When you leave the surface, you are now part of the Department of Veteran Affairs.
So these active duty members that seek help for their mental health issues and our diagnose with PTSD or other mental health issues, when they leave the service, there's no transition to a doctor that's in the Department of Interferres or perhaps out in the civilian world because of privacy acts.
Now there's some good news in this.
Just recently, it was legislated that a database will be built that will house both the department of defense records, health records, and department of veteran affairs health records.
But I want to take that thought a step further.
My company was 204 Marines in Sailor Strong.
As I looked at, I talked to my Marines for my unit, what we came up with is we are well in excess of a dozen of our members at Committed Suicide.
When I talked to senior leadership in the battalion and battalions about six to seven hundred Marines, they estimate that we're in the hundreds who have committed suicide.
So let's take this database that we're building and let's go a little bit further with it.
What if when a veteran passes away, whether it's natural causes, overdose or suicide, we're able to feed that into the veteran affairs who is then able to access the department defense records, identify what type of units they were in, what contingencies and operations that they participate in? And let's build the data points to try to figure out are there units that are more susceptible to develop post-magnet stress disorder, So that we can get them the mental health prior to going on deployment prior to being in theater.
If their insurer get them the mental health while they're in the theater and get them mental health counseling and help before they even come home out of the theater.
If we put our minds together and our resources together and we openly talk about this and try to find solutions for this epidemic that's going on in America, hopefully we can save a life.
Those are my thoughts, my ideas. I hope that this talk is not the end of this discussion, but rather the beginning of it.
And I want to thank you for your time today.
30 years ago, I walked into a nursing home and my life changed forever.
I was there to visit my grandmother Alice.
She was a very powerful woman who had lost a battle with a stroke that stole her ability to speak.
Alice had just three forms of communication left.
She had this sound that was like, that she could shift in tone from infatric, no, no, no, to enticing. Yes, you've almost got it. She had an incredibly expressive index finger, which she could shake and point with frustration.
And she had these enormous pale blue eyes that she could open and close for emphasis.
saying, why it opens seem to say, yes, you've almost got it. And closing slowly was, well, it didn't really need much translation.
It turns out that Alice had taught me that everyone has a story.
Everyone has a story.
The challenge for the listener is how to invite it into being and how to really hear it.
Now Alzheimer's and dementia, these are two words that when you say them in front of people, you can watch a cloud to send over them.
You can imagine me at dinner parties.
What do you do? Well, I invite people with Alzheimer's and dementia into expression.
Where are you going? Fear and stigma wrap themselves so tightly around and experience that affects 47 million people across the world and they can live with this diagnosis for between 10 and 15 years. And that number 47 million is supposed to triple by 2050.
Family and friends can fade away because they don't know how to be in your company, they don't know what to say. And suddenly when you need other people the most, you can find yourself really painfully alone, unsure of the meaning and the value of your own life.
Science is pushing for treatments, dreaming of cures. But loosening that grip of stigma and fear could ease the pain of so many people right now.
and luckily, meaningful connection doesn't take a pill.
It takes reaching out.
It takes listening.
and it takes a dose of wonder.
That really has become my unending quest. Set in motion by Alice and then later on by really countless elders in nursing homes and day centers and those struggling to stay at home.
and it comes down to the question of how.
How do you meaningfully connect?
I got a big part of that answer from a long married couple in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, where I'm from, Fran and Jim, whom I met on a rather dreary winter day and their tiny little kitchen in a humble duplex over by Lake Michigan.
And when I walked in, Fran and a caregiver and a care manager really greeted me really warmly. And Jim stood staring straight ahead, silent.
He was on a long slow journey into dementia and was now beyond words.
I was there as part of the project team.
We were doing what we call artistic house calls with a really simple goal of inviting Jim into creative expression. And hopefully modeling for Fran and the caregivers how they could meaningfully connect using imagination and wonder.
Now this was going to be no small task because it turns out Jim had not spoken in months.
could he even respond if I invited him into expression?
I didn't know.
Family members, when they try to connect, most commonly will invoke a shared past.
We say things like, do you remember that time? But nine times out of ten, the pathway for that one answer to travel and the brain is broken. And we're left alone with a loved one in the fog.
But there is another way in.
I call them beautiful questions.
A beautiful question is one that opens a shared path of discovery.
with no right or wrong answer. A beautiful question helps us shift away from the expectation of memory into the freedom of imagination, a thousand possible responses for people with cognitive challenges.
Now back in the kitchen, I didn't know one thing about gym.
I knew that he liked to walk along Lake Michigan. And when I looked around that kitchen, I saw over by the stove, this trunk that was just covered in little pieces of driftwood.
And I thought, I'll try a question that he could answer without words. So I tried, Jim, can you show me how water moves? It was silent for a while, but then really slowly, he took a step over to that trunk, and he picked up a piece of the driftwood, and he held it out. And then very slowly, he began to move his arm, leading with that driftwood.
And his hand, it became buoyant in sync with the motion of the waves that he made with his arms.
It began this slow journey across calm waters, this gentle rolling to the shore.
transferring his weight from left to right and back again. Jim became the waves.
his grace and his strength just took our breath away.
For 20 minutes, he animated one piece of driftwood after the other.
Suddenly he was not disabled.
We were not gathered in this kitchen for a care crisis.
Jim was a master puppeteer, an artist, a dancer.
Fran later told me that that moment had been a turning point for her, that she learned how to connect with him even as he progressed through the dementia.
and it really became a turning point for me too.
I learned that this creative open-ended approach could help families shift, expand their understanding of dementia as more than just tragic emptiness and loss into also meaningful connection and hope and love.
because creative expression in any form is generative.
It helps make beauty and meaning and value where there might have been absolutely nothing before.
If we can infuse that creativity into care, caregivers can invite a partner in the meaning-making. And in that moment, care, which is so often associated with loss, can become generative.
but so many settings of care, offer bingo and balloon toss.
activities are passive and entertainment oriented.
elders, sit and watch and applaud. Really just distracted until the next meal.
loved ones trying to keep their partners at home sometimes don't have anything to do and so they resort to watching television alone which compounds the symptoms of dementia with what researchers now tell us really are the devastating impacts of social isolation and loneliness.
But what if meaning making could be accessible to elders and their care partners wherever they lived?
I've really been totally transformed and captivated by bringing these creative tools to caregivers and watching that spark of joy and connection, discovering that creative play can remind them of why they do what they do.
Bringing this creative care to scale could truly shift the field.
But could we do it?
Could we infuse it into a whole care organization or an entire care system?
The first step toward that goal for me was to assemble a giant team of artists and elders and caregivers in one that care facility in Milwaukee.
Together over two years, we tackled reimagining the story of Homer's Odyssey. We explored themes.
We wrote poems.
together we created a mile long weaving.
We choreographed original dances.
We even explored and learned ancient Greek with the help of a classic scholar.
Hundreds of creative workshops we embedded into the daily activities calendar and invited the family members to join right along with us and had caregivers and staff from every single area of care collaborating on programming for the first time.
The culminating moment was an original professionally produced play that blended the professional performers right alongside the elders and the caregivers. And we invited a paying audience to follow us from scene to scene, one in the nursing home in the assisted living dining room. And finally in the chapel for the final scene were a chorus of elders all playing and Penelope lovingly welcomed Odysseus and the audience home.
Together we had dared to make something beautiful to invite elders some with dementia, some on hospice, into making meaning over time, to learn and grow as artists.
all this in a place where people were dying every day.
I find myself now in a place where I'm having to tackle this challenge of meeting a person with dementia across that gap in a more personal way.
At a family dinner over the holidays, my mother who was seated next to me turned to me and said, where's Annie? My funny and beautiful and feisty mother had been diagnosed with Alzheimer's.
And I found myself in that place that everyone dreads.
She didn't recognize me.
And I had to figure out fast if I could do what I'd been coaching thousands of other people to do to connect across that gap.
Do you mean Ellen, I said, because my sister's empty chair was just right across the table from us.
She just went to the bathroom. And my mother looked at me, and then something deep inside sparked. And she reached out and smiled and touched my shoulder. And she said, you're right there. And I said, yes. I am right here. I know that that moment is going to happen again and again. Not just for me and my mom, but for all 47 million people across the world, and the hundreds millions more who love them.
How will we answer this challenge that is going to touch the lives of every family?
how are our care systems going to answer that challenge?
I hope it is with a beautiful question. One that invites us to find each other and connect.
I hope our answer is that we value care, and the care can be generative and beautiful.
and that care can put us in touch with the deepest parts of our humanity, our yearning to connect and make meaning together all the way to the end.
Thank you.
I get now to introduce one of the most powerful women in the world.
I mean, if we are to escape from the mess that we're in right now, she is going to play a major part in helping us do that.
she's the head of the International Monetary Fund. I'd like to welcome her, Chris Selena, Gay or Gaeva.
Christiano
to be with you, Chris. Thank you.
Thank you for having me.
So you just took on this role late last year and within four months, boom, COVID arrives.
That is one heck of an introduction to a new job.
how are you doing?
Well, I find strength in action.
And so at the front we have been from day one on this crisis, leaning forward with everything we have to provide lifelines to countries and that means to people and businesses.
Already we have received over 90 requests and we have offered to 56 countries critical financial packages.
I mean you've described this pandemic as a crisis like no other.
in what way a crisis like no other.
What truly like no other?
First, never before, we will inflict on the economy consciously so much pain to fight a virus in safe lives.
We are asking businesses not to produce and consumers not to go out and consume.
At the front we labeled this the great lockdown. Second, never before, there would be such a rapid change of fortunes, practically for everybody around the world.
In January, I was in Davos talking about anemic growth, growth of 3%.
In APU during class, spring meetings, it was already minus 3%.
In January, we predicted 160 countries to have positive income per capita growth.
Now it is 170 countries with negative income per capita growth.
Now this week we call the Great Reverseel. Very painful.
and an entry uncertainty.
We always live with uncertainty, a quiz, but this time it is the uncertainty of a novel coronavirus that policymakers have to integrate
We had the funds combine epidemiological projections without traditional macroeconomic modeling to see true that uncertainty.
I must add to this. I very much hope that when we go on the other side in the recovery, we can use a new term and call it the great transformation. Make the world a better place.
Well, I'll be excited to come on to that in a bit.
But in this moment of responding to the crisis, the main tool that seems to have been executed at least by the rich countries has been this massive economic stimulus to the tune of Trillions of Dollars.
Is that a wise response?
It is necessity.
And you don't hear the front often telling countries please spend.
Spent as much as you can and that is what we do now
We do add to that and keep the receipts.
don't lose accountability to the citizens, to the taxpayers. The reason financial injection is necessary, this fiscal measures of almost $9 trillion are necessary is because when the economy is standing still, unless there is monetary policy stimulus, firms are going to go massively bankrupt. People would be unemployed. The economy would be be scarred.
When we go to the other side, this scarring is going to make the recovery much more difficult.
So that is a wise thing to do and it helps the fact that central banks in major economies have been acting in a synchronized manner and that fiscal stimulus came really, really fast.
This is how we see people being able to go through this very, very tough time.
But how far can it go?
because it's been described in a sense as printing money, government's reassuring more and more bonds that have to be paid back at some point.
This term in economics, you know, the minstky moment where things can go very well for a while as everyone believes that, you know, the, the, the train can keep running. The cycle can keep turning, you know, that governments have all this money
At some point though, doesn't that break down?
do you worry that we may be nearing a minceky moment where like Michael and Mary Poppins scratches, tapens and starts running the bag?
Is that stress in the international financial system now that concerns you that makes you feel that we may be running out of headroom?
Of course, this cannot go on forever.
I for one have trust in our scientists. I think we will see breakthroughs and we will see also people and businesses getting accustomed to social distancing to micro measures that protect from spreading the disease.
We have seen very massive injection in health systems, so hospitals can actually treat people that are coming for help.
Obviously, if it is to go for a very long time, we would be worried.
For now, what we are projecting is that there would be a gradual reopening. We see it already happening in a number of countries.
And we project for next year 2021 a partial recovery.
Not a full recovery, unfortunately, but coming to a better place.
Now, what helps us is something that I don't particularly love, but I see it as a positive feature, very low interest rates, in some cases negative. That allows this injection of fiscal measures and liquidity to be sustained over a number of years
And for now, we do not see on the horizon any return to increasing interest rates.
so low for longer and that is in that environment a helpful feature.
I mean the financial crisis of 2008 came perilously close to breaking the entire financial system arguably it did that.
By most people's calculation, this is a far worse impact to the economy overall.
did the world learn something from 2008 that has helped us so far be resilient this time?
What the world learned is that the financial system has to be tested and then strengthened to withstand shocks.
And that is helping us tremendously today.
The banking system is resilient and even in the non-banking financial institutions, there is more attention paid to how far can you go without running into trouble.
I would say if you look around the world, the most important lesson then was built resilience to shocks. Those who have done it, cope now better.
Това не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не е да не
and actually for the front, what we are praying is that we will come out of this crisis with this lesson about resilience being spread beyond the banking system. So we actually have this crisis management mindset for a world that is inevitably going to be more shot prone because of climate and also because of the sheer density of economic and social life on our planet.
In your role, you're paying a special attention to the situation in developing countries.
And it doesn't seem that they're facing a really terrible situation right now.
Many of them have significant debt denominated in dollars.
in the current crisis that currency is appreciating against the dollar, making it not impossible for them to execute the kind of injections, stimulus injections that the rich countries are doing and seems to be the only way out
So that seems like a really dangerous cycle.
is there any way to break that cycle?
Well, let me first separate countries that have built strong fundamentals.
Now in this crisis as we are receiving incoming data, there are not very many, but there are still some positive surprises and they come from countries that have built strong buffers, strong fundamentals, have been more disciplined during good times.
But indeed, we do see a quite a number of emerging markets developing countries faced with multiple pressures.
They have the hit from the coronavirus. Many of them with weak health systems.
Then they have the high level of indetteness from before the crisis, which creates much more difficult environment for them.
Then many of them are commodity exporters.
commodity prices all price down very dramatically that hits them again.
Many rely on remittances.
The remittances shrunk some 22%, 30%.
And then you have a number of countries that are highly dependent on tourism.
Tourism is the hardest hit sector or one of the hardest hits.
So, very tough for this country, but this is why institutions like mine have been wisely created.
The IMF, the World Bank, the Regional Development Banks, we work very closely together in this crisis.
The IMF fortunately, that was one of the lessons from the 2008-2009 crisis, make sure that in the center of the financial safety net is an IMF with financial strength.
We have four times more money to land today than we had then.
from $250 billion to $1 trillion.
And of course, we are deploying this funds exactly for the countries that need us to mouse.
and we did one more thing.
with David Mopas, the president of the World Bank, we called for a debt moratorium for the poorest countries to their official bilateral creditors.
And your people tend to say, oh, we don't work together. It's not good enough. But here is an area where we made this call in late March and in mid-April, the G20 agreed on this moratorium.
Amazing! We had the Paris Club China, the Gulf countries, all agreeing that we should not suffocate the poorest countries by asking them to pay their debts where their economies are standing still.
Is it possible that some developing countries are overdoing the lockdown policy?
I mean, if large numbers of your citizens are already struggling to stay alive, isn't it almost like a death sentence to order them not to leave their homes?
Chris, one of the most heartbreaking conversations I would have is with leaders of countries where they have to spare in the face a choice of people dying from the virus or dying from hunger.
And it is a very dramatic situation for them.
Where you have a very large part of your economy being informal, where people live, hand to mouth every day. The lockdowns we have in advanced economies are not quite applicable, but even there countries are doing really well in social distancing to extend it is possible
Many of the countries in Africa were very early to step up preventive measures.
Why?
They learn from the Ebola. They learn from prior crisis that hygiene, taking any measure you can really, really helps.
So again, I cannot stress enough how important is solidarity with this country.
How important is for my institution to be there for them in a timely, in a
timely manner and we do it.
Whitney.
Hi there, thank you. This is a wonderful conversation where we're starting to see some questions coming from the community.
But the first one we had is from Bill Elkis. And it's followed up to something you were mentioning earlier related to the stimulus.
What are the prospects for inflation from such large stimulus?
At this point, we are not worried about inflation in advanced economies and in majority of emerging market economies.
We do worry about inflation in countries that have weak fundamentals, no access to foreign exchange easily, where the only way to address the crisis is our help or their central banks printing more money.
and sometimes it's a combination of those two.
Why I don't worry about inflation in advanced economies?
Kako je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo, je znamo,
So for this country, at least for observable future, we don't see a way of going like after the Second World War in inflation jumping up.
The consumers are not consuming so aggressively. The demand is not that strong. And these are societies where there is a lot of maturity in how they exercise their policy options.
But if you are a poor country that out of desperation with no access to markets, no access to hard currency, ought to somehow put money supply enough, then inflation is going to be there.
a very extreme case is in BABU, and I do worry there may be other countries
So this is why we are so determined to engage with this country's early.
and also look at some of the high debt countries.
would it be necessary on a country-by-country basis to restructure debts to prevent that moving in a desperate direction?
Thank you.
And we have one more question that I wanted to share from our community.
This is from Keith Yamashita and it's about sort of how we all can be involved in some of this change.
your task with macroeconomic and funding efforts.
What should we do as citizens to help renewal and recovery? It is incredibly important for all of us citizens and aside from being the head of the IMF, I am also a global citizen that we are to bring that notion of solidarity in a moment of crisis.
I loved the way this segment was a musically backed and it was lean on me. It is very important that we do create that sense. We are in this together, we would get together. And please speak up on that.
I was for many years crisis commissioner and one thing I learned is that majority of people are positive good people.
You can lean on them.
Iša je nače, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to, da je to,
So good people, speak up.
spread that sense of we are in this together, we'll get through it together. Thank you.
I'll come back later with other questions.
Katil, I looked to extent of that and just ask you a bit more about leadership actually.
You know, when people think of the nations that have performed best, they often refer to, I'm going to say best best in response to the current pandemic. They often refer to Germany, New Zealand, South Korea, Taiwan, Denmark, and Norway.
And they think of those that have performed worse. They often think of Spain, Italy, the UK, Belgium, Sweden, Iran, Brazil, Russia, and the United States.
All of that same group are run by men or but one of the first group are run by women.
Is that a coincidence?
Well, now speaking a bit subjectively as a woman, I do believe that women are great to lead in a crisis.
They are more likely to show empathy, to care about the most vulnerable people and to be able to speak about that.
They are decisive.
I can say that for myself, we take energy from action.
And we don't tend to kind of morning complain.
So there is perhaps something to be said about the value of gender equality for the future.
bring more women for this world of more crisis ahead of us.
I mean, it's obviously hard to make generalizations about gender of any kind. Is there also almost something about the embracing of nuance that women want you better at that than men?
and it's like, let's win, let's conquer. And in a situation like this, where it's all probabilities, it's like, there's so many complex dials to turn on this, this dangerous pandemic machine that we're trying to wrestle.
Um, that, that, that, that, that's what happened.
Let me say something, Chris.
We need everybody and we need this mixture of experience, knowledge and predisposition.
men and women coming together.
I find it that it is great to have different perspectives when we make decisions.
Then the chances of making a good decision are high as
So we need each other, but we also need to recognize these. That yes, there are certain things I have seen it time and again, women are more willing to find the pathway to compromise. They're more willing to be corrected if they're wrong.
say, oh, okay, that's a good point. Let me integrate it in the way I think about it. And so when you are in uncertainty, that is a huge advantage in the season making.
So perhaps talk a bit more about your own leadership in this moment.
I mentioned you've only recently come to this job.
Before that, you're a European commissioner, you dealt with humanitarian crises in more than one part of the world.
In your own country, Bulgaria, you witnessed the wholesale transformation of the country both politically and economically.
What lessons can you bring from your past experience to this moment?
Well, there are many things I learned.
I was very fortunate to have this multiple experiences for the job I have now.
but let me highlight a tree.
First, how critically important it is to prepare for a crisis.
kind of think of the unthinkable and then act with some foresight when a shock hits you.
You have a title for this series called Build Back Better. I actually would like to modify it if I may. And I would talk about Build Better before. Prepareness prevention pay off big time.
The second not necessarily in priority, it is as important as collective action. Working together.
seeking help offering help.
makes a huge difference in emergency.
And the 30's something I learned time and again.
We don't know our internal strength until we are hit.
We are so resilient, we are so able to withstand shocks especially when we come together. That this always gives me this sense of optimism that as hard as it is, we can overcome 80.
From the days when my country collapsed, the economic collapse, I would get up at 4 o'clock in the morning, Q to buy milk for my daughter, to the days when I would see Syrian refugees, interv allen situations helping each other. To today, when I'm the head of the IMF, that internal strength, our power of resilience. So the more we are together, the more it is amplified.
If you talk a bit more about the role of the IMF, especially as we look forward to trying to recover from this.
What specifically can your organization do to take us forward?
So there are three things that are quite unique for the IMF and they're really so important in the time of crisis.
The first one is to give a good diagnostic of what is happening and what is the way for
Let me just say in this crisis in the very first weeks, we put together with policy action tracker for 190 tree countries.
What actions are countries taking? How they can learn from each other? So we can be more effective.
we are heading to it now actions for responsible reopening of the economies exactly with that purpose.
What we are known best for, we are the financial first responder.
We are coming in this incredible shock with very significant financial firepower.
And what people don't know is that the front has multiple instruments.
Emergen si final sin que es de 1, we double for this crisis.
Any these knock-in tissue now
We're asking one thing, Chris.
Pay your doctors and your nurses, your hospitals, protect your most vulnerable people and parts of the economy.
That's it. This is the condition.
And the third thing we do at the front is to help countries have the capacity for good policies.
After the financial crisis, we have many countries to have good fiscal management, transparency and accountability to improve the performance of public finance.
So the fund is not a very big organization by any standard we are some 3000 people.
highly professional in incredibly committed.
When you use the expression, all hands on deck, that's us.
Et puis c'est du tout d'accord. Et puis c'est du tout d'accord.
I mean this is a global crisis.
A lot of people are worried that unlike perhaps even in 2008 where it really did seem there was a lot of global cooperation. There's actually in some worrying ways less this time.
Are you worried about how crucial is that to getting us through this?
My preoccupation is in our mandate, in my area of responsibility, bring the membership together.
We have almost the whole world, a hundred and eighty nine countries around members. And so far, I am very impressed by how responsive the membership has been.
I put in front of them in the spring package, very strong package of measures to expand the role of the IMF in the crisis.
Everything that we ask for, we ask for doubling emergency financing, we got it.
Very interesting.
We ask for tripling concessional financing.
Exactly because you know like the virus hits people with weak system the hardest the crisis hits weak economies the hardest.
So we wanted to triple concession of financing.
Within one month, we got it.
We ask for grants for that relief. We got it.
So what I'm trying to say here is that we need to focus on ways in which we bring the world together.
and then act on that.
I understand. Rather than complaining that maybe not everything is the way it should be. Do your duty to the global community.
one in
And the IMF is dependent on the financing from its members, its key members.
at the end.
I mean, you spoke of the trillion dollars that you are looking to make available to nations that need it.
As I read it, that comes from you got this, these units called special drawing right.
you basically draw a currency from members.
hasn't been pushed back though from the US to block that effort of raising all that money.
So the $1 trillion is from our quarters and also from our ability to move money from well-to-do members from the Advasi economies and landed at very low or zero interest to the developing emerging markets.
And we had this one trillion in what was very interesting not everybody noticed that. US in the $2 trillion stimulus package included the support for the IMF.
The special drawing rights is something that we indeed don't have yet consensus among the membership to do.
It was done during the 2009 crisis issuing liquidity and it goes to everybody.
And there are many voices including mine. I spoke to the G20 about that that are saying, well, that may be a good thing to do now.
It is not being supported for reasons.
It is not just capricious.
The problem with special drawing rises that when we issue them, they go to all members and the advanced economies get 62% of the new allocation. And there are some that are saying, can we think of something that is more directed or exclusively directed to those who who need it? But Chris, everything is on the table for us.
as the crisis unfolds, we do we need to do more, we bring the membership to do more.
Whitney.
And so we actually have a question from the community that sort of builds on what you're discussing right now.
You have Nitha Kana asks, which countries will prove to be resilient in the great transformation? Those with popular leaders or those with sound financial systems? They both met there.
countries with strong fundamentals are clearly going through this crisis with less trauma that those that had weak fundamentals to begin with
Egy a korszlédersi betmeters.
how you mobilize a country for action matters.
In my view what we would see on the other side, the winners would be those who think today, and this crisis also has an opportunity.
Clearly digital transformation is a huge opportunity.
moving to e-learning, e-government, e-payments, e-commerce, linking small and medium-sized enterprises through digital to consumers, big winner.
Secondly, I very much hope that we would come on the other side with low carbon footprint and a more climate resilient economy.
Those who move in this direction, they would reduce the risk for themselves and the world.
from this other crisis that we're not talking so much about this day, but it hasn't gone anywhere.
And you know, if you don't like pandemic, you're not gonna like the climate crisis at all.
and also countries that are thinking of how to make the economy in the future a fair economy.
In other words, we have been seeing inequality building up before this crisis.
My colleagues who have researched pandemics have a very bitter lesson for us.
after pandemics, after H1, H1, H1 after SARS after Zika in a quality goes up.
Well, are we going to let inequality to go up after this crisis?
And if we do, we are damaging the fabric of our societies and my sense is that hundreds of millions of people in this crisis would much prefer to have simpler, fairer, more equitable world to live in and definitely more sustainable world.
Yeah.
And just definitely
And just one more question from our community before turning it back to Christopher for some final questions here.
But you know, as you, this one is from Sarah Rukheimer and the question is what do you see as the main potential positive shifts and changes in this world from this pandemic, say, two to ten years from now?
First, I hope to see fiscal policy to help us recover, to be geared towards green recovery and more equitable recovery.
And that is something that is in the hands of policymakers.
it can be done.
Secondly, I very much hope to see us integrating what we have learned from the crisis in terms of virtual work.
My organization, the IMF, well, we can shrink our carbon footprint dramatically just by sustaining the practices we are developing now and we will.
I certainly hope to see in the future much more attention to two things that we saw in this crisis are essential.
Universal Access to Health in some form, strong health systems, as well as strong social safety nets. Build as automatic stabilizers in a time of shock.
And by the way, it is cheaper if we do it in this way.
The bill for everyone is going to be smaller.
And also I very much hope that this notion of investing in people, recognizing that now that we see this horrible tragedy, the loss of lives, that investing in people is the very best investment we can make.
It's great.
So see you again in a minute Whitney.
Um, I'm getting, I'm getting it. It's so, um, it's, it's so inspiring actually hearing the energy and stuff, the energy that you bring into this.
I don't think many people coming into this would have expected to hear from the head of the IMF, this emphasis on, you know, let's solve the crime crisis, let's tackle inequality and injustice. Do you really believe that this moment, this crisis could help lead us into a great transformation
people will feel it's your job to sound positive. You have to do that.
Do you really see the path forward that we can get through this and how what sort of time scale are we talking about here?
Well, you don't want one thing I learned from the transition I live through the transition from center planning to markets is it is stuff, it is long, it is painful and it is a road that takes turns.
So I don't have an expectation of miracle from here to there.
But I genuinely believe that we are now in a point of our history when people demand from their leaders safety and security and a society that is not torn apart by conflicts.
And that is actually not unusual to see.
So I would turn the table a little bit on your crease.
After a war, we see the world coming together and building a better world.
Why not after a pandemic?
And yes, we can make mistakes and not take the right route to travel.
But we certainly have an obligation to try to get on that road.
So if everybody matters, everybody matters for that.
So if you could inject one idea into the mind of everybody, on into the world leaders who listen to you, what would that idea be at this moment?
Optimism.
built a better world.
possible, desirable, we must do it.
That sounds like optimism as the starts, not just a knife belief that it will happen, but a determination to make itself
that's what you're calling for.
to use that as the motivation to pull us all forward together.
Chris, do I have one minute or I'm done? I need to go.
If you want to say one last thing, one minute. All right, go.
I want to say one thing.
to recommend to the audience to watch the movie Bridges of Spice. There is a part in the movie in which the two main actors, the lawyer and the Russian spy talk to each other
loyal settings are very bad. It looks like you may hang. The spice very calm.
Lawyer says, I don't you worry. The spy sensor would it help? So my message is it is tough. But worries won't help.
Positive action will.
positive, state positive, so that's my message.
Well, I have to say thank you.
incredibly inspiring actually to see your energy and your determined optimism. Let's let's call it that.
I think we wish you the very best as you use your position to help get us out of this mess.
Thank you so much, Kristallina, for spending time here at TED.
Thank you.
Thank you for swimming.
a new virus emerges and spreads like wildfire.
In order to contain it, researchers must first collect data about who's been infected.
Two main viral testing techniques are critical. One tells you if you have the virus and the other shows if you've already had it.
So how exactly do these tests work?
PCR or polymerase chain reaction testing targets the viruses genetic material in the body and is used to diagnose someone who is currently infected.
Yet this genetic material may be present in such imperceptible amounts that actually detecting it is difficult.
This is where PCR comes in. It's widely used to amplify genetic information to large enough quantities that it can be readily observed.
to develop a PCR test for a never-before-seen virus, researchers first sequenced its genetic material or genome, and identify regions that are unique to that specific virus.
PCR then targets these particular segments.
A PCR test begins by collecting a sample. This can be blood for hepatitis viruses, feces for polio virus, and samples from the nose or throat for coronaviruses.
The sample is taken to a central laboratory where PCR is performed to test for the presence of the virus's genus.
Genetic information can be encoded via DNA or RNA.
HPV, for example, uses DNA. While SARS-CoV-2, the cause of COVID-19, uses RNA.
Before running the PCR, the viral RNA, if present, must be reversed transcribed to make a strand of complementary DNA.
researchers then run the PCR.
If the virus is present in the sample, it's unique regions of genetic code will be identified by complementary primers and copied by enzymes.
One strand of DNA becomes hundreds of millions, which are detected using probes marked with fluorescent dye.
If the PCR machine senses fluorescence, the sample has tested positive for the virus, meaning the individual is infected.
amino acids on the other hand, tap into the immune system's memory of the virus, showing if someone has previously been infected.
They work by targeting virus specific antibodies generated by the immune system during infection.
These are specialized classes of proteins that identify and fight foreign substances like viruses.
Immuno-Azays may detect IGG antibodies, the most abundant class, and IGM antibodies. The type that's first produced in response to a new infection.
The presence of IgM antibodies suggests a recent infection, but since it can take the body over a week to produce a detectable amount, they're unreliable in diagnosing current infections.
Meanwhile, IGD antibodies circulate for an extended period after infection. Their presence usually indicates that someone was exposed and recovered.
Before the amino assay, health professionals draw blood from an individual.
This sample then comes into contact with the portion of the virus of interest.
If the body has, in fact, been exposed to the virus in the past. The body's virus specific antibodies will bind to it during the test.
This reaction produces a change in colour, indicating that the sample tested positive and that the individual has been exposed to the virus.
are especially important when it comes to retroactively diagnosing people who were infected but went untested.
and there's exciting potential for those who have developed immunity to a virus. In some cases, their blood plasma could be used as treatment in people who are currently fighting it.
PCR and amino acids are always in the process of becoming more accurate and efficient.
For example, innovations in PCR have led to the use of self-contained testing devices that relay results within one hour.
Digital PCR, which quantifies individual pieces of target DNA, shows promise and further boosting accuracy.
and although amino assays are difficult to develop quickly, researchers in Singapore were able to create one for SARS-CoV-2, even before COVID-19 was declared a pandemic.
These tests, along with the scientists who developed them and the health professionals who administer them, are absolutely essential.
And when deployed early, they can save millions of lives.
Raise your hand and be honest, if you've used the phrase crazy, busy, to describe your day, your week, your month,
I'm an emergency room doctor and crazy busy is a phrase you will never hear me use.
And after today, I hope you'll stop using it too.
Here's why you cannot afford to use crazy to describe your busy.
Because when we are in what I refer to as crazy busy mode, we are simply less capable of handling the busy.
Here's what happens.
Your stress hormones rise and stay there. Your executive function and the prefrontal cortex declines.
That means you're memory, your judgment, your impulse control deteriorate. And the brain areas for anger and anxiety are activated.
Do you feel that?
Here's the thing.
You can be as busy as an emergency department without feeling like you're crazy, busy.
How?
by using the same tactics that we use.
Our brains all process stress in similar fundamental ways.
but how we react to it has been shown by research to be modifiable whether it's emergencies or just daily day in day out stress.
Now contrast, crazy busy mode with how I think it was in the ER. Ready mode.
Ready mode means whatever comes in through those doors, whether it's a multiple car, pile up, or a patient having chest pain while stuck in an elevator, or another patient with an item stuck where it shouldn't be.
when you know you're dying to ask.
Even on those days when you would swear you were being poked, we're not afraid of it.
because we know that whatever comes in through those ER double doors, that we can handle it.
that we're ready.
That's Ready Mode.
We've trained for it and you can too.
Here's how.
Step one to go from crazy mode to ready mode is to relentlessly triage.
In crazy mode, you're always busy, always stressed because you're reacting to every challenge with the same response.
Contrast that with ready mode, where we triage, which means we prioritize by degree of urgency.
This isn't just a nice way to get your to do list time.
Work by Dr. Robert Sapolsky shows that individuals who cannot differentiate threat from non-threat and react to everything with the same response have double the level of stress hormones.
Which is why this is the first skill to learn.
You can't take care of them all at once, but you don't have to.
because we triage.
Red immediately live threatening.
Yellow, serious, but not immediately life threatening.
Green, minor.
and we focus our efforts first on the reds.
Now hear this.
Part of the problem in crazy mode is that you are reacting to everything as if it is red.
So start by triaging correctly.
know your reds.
there what is most important and where you can most move the needle.
Now it's easy to be confused by noise, but what is noiseiest is not always what is most read.
In fact, my severe asnatic patient is most at risk when he's quiet.
But my patient over here demanding that I bring her flavored coffee creamer. She's noisy, but she's not red.
I'll give you an example for my own life.
Last spring my house flooded my one year old was in the ER. I was supposed to do a fundraiser for my four year old school and the final chapter of my book was beyond late.
Maybe not ironically that was the chapter on stress.
My red tasks were getting my one year old better and finishing my book.
That was it.
Remember, relentlessly triage.
The House flood repair?
Well, once we had stopped and stabilized the damage, it was no longer a red.
It felt red, but it was in fact just noise.
No, no, really, it was quite noisy. This picture on the far right is me wearing earplugs to focus on my book while the floor is being mechanically dried around me.
Know your reds and do not let your non-reds distract you from them.
By the way, it is liberating with a green task to everyone's gonna be able to remind yourself, that's a green task.
No one's gonna die. It's okay if it's not perfect.
Now there's one last triage level that we use in the worst scenarios.
And that is black.
those patients for whom there's nothing we can do.
What we must move on.
and although it is gut-wrenching, I mention it because you each have your own equivalent black tasks in your life.
These are items that you must take off your list.
I think many of you know what I'm talking about.
For me, this was the fundraiser.
I had to step down.
because as we in the ER know, if you try to do everything, you have no hope of saving your reds.
Step two to go from crazy mode and to ready mode is to expect and design for crazy.
Half of handling crazy is how you prepare for it.
So step one, we triage step two, we designed to make those tasks easier to do.
science shows as if the more options we have than the longer each decision takes.
and the more decisions we have to make, the more exhaust in our brain gets and the less it is capable of making good decisions.
which is why this step two is about finding ways to reduce your daily decisions.
Here are four easy examples you can use in your daily lifestyle.
plan.
Plan your entire week's meals on the weekend so that when it's Wednesday at 6 p.m. and everyone's hangry and requesting pizza, you have no decisions to make to get a healthy meal on the table.
Automate.
Never leave anything to remember that you could automate. Whether it's scheduling it as recurring or saved list or recurrent purchases.
Cullocate.
When it comes to exercise, store all the equipment that you need for a certain activity together, charged, and ready so you don't spend energy looking for it.
and decrease temptations for anyone driven by sugar cravings.
Anyone?
say I go head.
That itself is its own form of crazy mode and self medication for crazy mode, but stop working your willpower.
Design differently.
If a food is out of immediate reach, such that you have to use a stool to reach it, even when it's chocolate. Study participants, eight, 70% less without thinking about it.
I know.
Let that sit for a second.
Design to make the choices you wish to make easier.
Which brings us to the third step to go from crazy mode to ready mode, and that is to get out of your head.
กำลักไม่
Different story.
I'm working in a small satellite ER. When a woman comes in in labor.
I realize that the cord is wrapped, not once, but twice around the baby's neck.
and I'm the only doctor.
I was scared.
But I couldn't let it derail me.
because you see we all get nervous.
We all get scared, but it's what you do next that matters.
That first feeling isn't the problem.
It can be an important sign.
The problem comes, we let it derail us.
when that internal monologue starts and we catastrophize and we start to get that tunnel vision.
That's how you think when you're in crazy mode and you cannot solve anything that way.
Now I promised to come back to the story, but first, how do I get out of my own head?
There are many tactics that you may hear, but for me, I find it best in the moment to actively put my focus on someone else.
To deliberately make myself see the person in front of me, see myself in the arena with them. What do they need? What do they fear? And how can I help?
This may sound like a whole lot of warm and fuzzy to you, but it's not.
In fact, research shows that when you prime your brain with what is essentially compassion, we disrupt that tunnel vision and internal monologue.
you widen your perception so your brain can actually take in broader information so you see more possibilities and can make better decisions.
try it.
know that your internal monologue can derail you.
and realize that when you get out of your own head, you get out of your own way.
Now what happened to that baby?
I focus not on my fear, but on the mother and the baby and what they needed me to do.
got the cord off of the baby's neck and a healthy screaming kicking baby arrived just as a dad ran in from the parking lot. Hi, you have a son. I'm Dr. Daria.
Congratulations, you want to cut the cord? And for a moment, the strong cries of a newborn drowned out the beeps and the sirens that are the normal sounds of the ER.
There was also something else.
because when I walked back out of that mother's room, I saw several of my other patients hovering nearby.
a suddenly realized that despite their own problems that had brought them to the emergency room, they had all come together to root for this baby.
and they now together shared in the joy.
because that is what happens when you go from crazy mode to ready mode.
others notice.
They want it to. They just don't know how they just need one example.
which could be you.
own the busy.
But stop calling it crazy.
You've always had that ability.
bit now.
You're ready.
Thank you.
When I was a kid, my mom and I made this deal.
I was allowed to take three mental health rest days every semester as long as I continue to do well in school.
This was because I started my mental health journey when I was only six years old.
I was always what my grade school teachers would call a warrior, but later on we found out that I have trauma and do sting anxiety and clinical depression.
This may growing up pretty hard.
I was worried about a lot of things that other kids weren't and school got really overwhelming sometimes.
This resulted in a lot of breakdowns, panic attacks. Sometimes I was super productive and other days I couldn't get anything done.
This was all happening during a time when mental health wasn't being talked about as much as it is now, especially youth mental health.
Some semesters I used all of those rest days to the fullest.
Others, I didn't need any at all.
But the fact that they were always an option is what kept me a happy, healthy, and successful student.
Now I'm using those scales that I learned as a kid to help other students with mental health challenges.
I'm here today to offer you some insight into the world of teenage mental health. What's going on? How did we get here and what can we do?
But first, you need to understand that well, not everyone has a diagnosis mental illness like I do. Absolutely everyone. All of you have mental health.
All of us have a brain that needs to be cared for in similar ways that we care for our physical well-being.
Our head and our body are connected by much more than just our neck after all.
Mental illness, even manifests itself in some physical ways, such as nausea, headaches, fatigue, and shortness of breath.
So since mental health affects all of us, shouldn't we be coming up with solutions that are accessible to all of us?
That brings me to my second part of my story.
When I was in high school, I had gotten pretty good at managing my own mental health.
I was a successful student and I was president of the Organ Association of Student Councils.
But there's a round this time that I began to realize mental health was a much bigger problem than just for me personally.
Unfortunately, my hometown was touched by multiple suicides during my first year in high school.
I saw those tragedies shake our entire community. And as the President of a statewide group, I began hearing more and more stories from students where this had also happened in their town.
So in 2018 at our annual summer camp, we held a forum with about 100 high school students to discuss teenage mental health.
What could we do?
We approached this conversation with an enormous amount of empathy and honesty and the results were astounding.
What struck me the most was that every single one of my peers had a story about a mental health crisis in their school. No matter if they were from a tiny town in eastern Oregon or the very heart of Portland.
This was happening everywhere.
We even did some research and we found out that suicide is the second leading cause of death for youth ages 10 to 24 in Oregon.
The second leading cause.
We knew we had to do something.
So over the next few months, we made a committee called the Students for a Healthy Oregon. And we set out to end the stigma against mental health.
We also wanted to prioritize mental health and schools.
With the help of some lobbyists and a few mental health professionals, we put forth House Bill 219 on.
This bill allows students to take mental health days off from school the same way you would a physical health day.
Because oftentimes that day off is the difference between feeling a whole lot better and a whole lot worse. Kind of like those days, my mom gave me when I was younger.
So over the next few months, we lobbied and researched and campaigned for our bill and in June of 2019 it was finally signed into law.
Here's an example of how this is playing out now.
Let's say a student is having a really hard month.
They're overwhelmed, overworked, they're falling behind in school and they know they need help.
Maybe they've never talked about mental health with their parents before, but now they have a law on their side to help initiate that conversation.
The parents still needs to be the one to call the school and excuse the absence, so it's not like it's a free pass for the kids, but most importantly, now the school has that absence recorded as a mental health day. So they can keep track of just how many students take how many mental health days.
If a student takes too many, they'll be referred to the school counselor for a check-in.
This is important because we can catch students who are struggling before it's too late.
One of the main things we heard at that forum in 2018 is that oftentimes stepping forward and getting help is the hardest step.
We're hoping that this law can help with that.
This not only will start teaching kids young how to take care of themselves and practice self-care and stress management, but it could also literally save lives.
Now, students from multiple other states are also trying to pass these laws.
I'm currently working with students in both California and Colorado to do the same because we believe that students everywhere deserve a chance to feel better.
Aside from all the practical reasons and technicalities, House Bill 2191 is really special because of the core concept behind it. That physical and mental health are equal and should be treated as such.
In fact, they're connected.
Take healthcare, for example.
Think about CPR.
If you were put in a situation where you had to administer CPR, would you know at least a little bit of what to do?
Think to yourself. Most likely yes, because CPR trainings are offered in most schools, workplaces, and even online.
We even have songs that go with it.
But how about mental health care?
I know I was trained in CPR in my seventh grade health class.
What if I was trained in seventh grade how to manage my mental health or how to respond to a mental health crisis?
I'd love to see a world where each of us has a toolkit of skills to help a friend, co-worker, family member, or even a stranger going through a mental crisis.
and these resources should be especially available in schools because that's where students are struggling the most.
The other concept that I sincerely hope you take with you today is that it is always okay to not be okay and it is always okay to take a break.
It doesn't have to be a whole day. Sometimes that's not realistic.
But it can be a few moments here and they are to check in with yourself.
Think of life like a race.
like a long distance race.
If you sprint in the very beginning, you're going to get burnt out.
You may even hurt yourself from pushing too hard.
But if you pace yourself, if you take it slow sometimes intentionally and you push yourself other times, you are sure to be way more successful.
So please, look after each other, look after the kids and teens in your life. Especially the ones that look like they have it all together.
Mental health challenges are not going away, but as a society, we can learn how to manage them by looking after one another.
and look after yourself too.
As my mom would say, once in a while, take a break. Thank you.
Sentinel is a proactive early warning system to pre-empty me.
It is built on 3 major pillars.
The first pillar is detect.
Christian, I've been studying infectious diseases together around the world for two decades.
We've been using genome sequencing.
Reading out the complete genetic information of a microbe, it allows us to identify viruses even those we've never seen before. Track them as they spread and watch for new mutations.
And now with a powerful gene editing technology CRISPR, we can use this genetic information to rapidly design exquisitely sensitive diagnostic tests for any
one of these tools is called shell up.
can be used to test non-verices on simple paper strips.
It is very inexpensive and front-line head workers can use shallow to detect the most common or most threatening viruses within an hour.
The other tool is Carmen.
It requires a lab, but it can test for hundreds of viruses simultaneously.
So hospital lab staff can test patient samples for broad range of viruses within a day.
Our second pillar is connect.
Connect everyone and share this information across the public health community.
Most outbreaks, hospital staffs, your case information through paper, Excel, if at all.
This makes tracking an outbreak through space and time and coordinating response extremely difficult.
So we're developing a cloud-based system and mobile applications that connect community health workers, clinicians, public health teams, everyone, and allows them to upload data, perform analysis, share insights, and coordinate a response and action plan in real time.
A third pillar is a tower.
However, so the system can only succeed if we empower from the headquarters that are already out there, taking care of communities.
e do quias ou noro ofprimis.
Pretty son I have a very much aware of that.
We spend the past 10 years training hundreds of young African scientists and clinicians.
Over the next five years, we will train at additional 1,000-hour workers to use Sentinel Detection tools and empower them to train their colleagues.
This way we will improve the original hacker system and integrate
So here we are.
we're recording this.
It's April 7th, 2020. And obviously we are in the throes of this crazy global pandemic caused by this new coronavirus.
So YouTube have been working together forever and you really came together pretty aggressively with the Ebola crisis back in 2015.
What does it feel like from your perspective?
pretty much at six years after the Ebola outbreak, we're really facing another crisis and we still, pretty much like we never learned from the previous crisis.
And that's really for me is the heartbreaking.
I think that this pandemic has shown us how unprepared that we are everywhere in the world.
Christian and our partners together had diagnostics at our hospital sites in Nigeria, Sierra Leone and Senegal in early February.
most states in the United States didn't have it for far later.
It tells us that we are all in this together and we are all very much behind the curve.
So this Sentinel system is amazing, but I know that the question that's on everybody's mind is how is that playing into the here and now?
We describe Sentinel's pandemic preemption system and here we are in a pandemic.
But what's great is actually the same tools you need to preempt a pandemic are the ones that you need to respond to one.
And so all of the technologies that we have laid out, the point of care testing, the multiplex testing, the discovery and tracking of the virus, it's changing and the overlay of the mobile applications to dashboard are all critical.
It is a war.
We basically committed for 24 hours turn around time to give results. And that requires us to work around the plot and not stop.
So it's a pretty challenging moment.
We're away from family.
I have a privilege to see family today. And I'm sure, you know, tomorrow I'm heading back in the trenches.
In my lab, we took the first COVID-19 genome on the African continent, and then that really was done within 48 hours.
And this is revolutionary, you know, coming from Africa and then making this information available for the global health community to see what virus within Africa looks like.
I believe that with technologies and knowledge and then sharing information, we can do better and then we can overcome.
the whole idea of Sentinel is that we all stand guard over each other.
We all watch.
Each one of us is a Sentinel.
each one of us being able to monitor what is making us sick can share that with the rest of our community.
And I think that is what I profoundly want is for us to all stand guard and watch over each other.
Huang, it's so good to see you.
Thank you for joining us.
In January, I went to Paris, did my interview for the Fashion Week there, came back to Beijing on January 22nd, and finding things a little bit tense because there were a lot of rumors
having lived through SARS, I wasn't that concerned.
And on the 23rd, I had a friend of mine from New York come to my house who had a flu and we had dinner together and another friend who came who left the next day for Australia for vacation on an airplane.
So we were not taking this terribly seriously until there was a lockdown.
And we've seen that echo around the world.
I think still some people find it hard to understand the magnitude of some of the measures that China took.
I mean, what else are we missing about China's response in all of this?
You know, historically we're just such a two very different countries in terms of culture and history.
These are two completely different human experiences for its people.
So for China, when the lockdown high happens, people are okay.
people are okay with it because they think that's what a good parent should do.
You know, if a kid gets sick, sick, you put him in the other room and you lock him up and make sure that the other kids don't get sick.
and they expect that out of the government.
But when it is outside of China from America, it becomes a huge issue of the right political thing to do and whether it's infringing on personal freedom.
So the issues that you have to deal with in the Democratic society are issues that one does not have to deal with in China.
I have to say that there is a word in Chinese that doesn't exist in any other language. And the word is called Guai. It is what you call a kid who listens to his or her parents.
So I think we are very, as a people, we are very, we have this sort of authoritarian figure that Chinese always look up to and they do expect the government to actually take the actions and they will deal with it.
however much suffering there is, they feel that, okay, if, you know, big brother says that this has to be done, then it must be done.
And that really defines China as a mentality. Chinese has a separate mentality as say people in Europe and America.
And that sense of collective responsibility sometimes feels kind of a little absent from this culture.
At the same time, there are, I think, valid concerns around surveillance and data privacy, things like that.
What is the balance here and what is the right trade-off between surveillance and freedom?
I think in the Internet age, it is somewhere between China and the US.
I think when you take individual freedom versus collective safety, there has to be a balance somewhere there.
With surveillance, you know, the head of Baidu, Robin Lee once said the Chinese people are quite willing to give up certain individual rights in exchange for convenience.
actually he was completely criticized on Chinese social media, but I think he is right.
Chinese people are willing to give up certain rights.
For example, we have
Chinese mostly are very proud of the payment system we have, which is where you can go anywhere, just with your iPhone and pay for everything and all they do is face scan.
I think that probably freaks Americans out.
You know, China right now, we're still under semi lockdown. So if you go anywhere, there's a app where you scan and you input your mobile phone number and the app will tell the guard at the entrance of the mall, for example, where you have been for the past 14 days.
Now, when I told that to an American, she was horrified and she thought it was such an invasion of privacy.
On the other hand, as someone who is Chinese and have lived in China for the past 20 years, although I understand that American mentality, I still find it, I'm Chinese enough to think, I don't mind this, and I am better, I feel safer entering the mall because everybody has has been scanned. Whereas I think individual freedom as a abstract concept in a pandemic like this is actually really meaningless.
So I think the West really need to move a step towards the East and to think about the collective as a whole rather than only think about oneself as an individual.
The rise of antagonistic rhetoric between the US and China is obviously troubling. And the thing is that countries are interlinked whether people understand global supply chains or not.
What do you think we had next?
You know, this is the most horrifying thing that came out of this, the kind of nationalistic sentiments on both sides in this pandemic.
Because I'm an optimist, I think what will come out of this is that both sides will realize that this is a fight that the entire human race have to do together and not apart.
despite the rhetoric, the global economy has grown to such an integration that decoupling will be extremely costly and painful for both United States and China.
It's also been interesting to me to see the criticism that China has received quite vocally.
For instance, they've been criticised for downplaying the death toll, arguably, also for trying to demonize Dr. Lee, the Wuhan doctor who first kind of raised the alarm about the coronavirus.
I just saw a report in the New York Times that waybo users have been posting repeatedly on the last post of Dr. Lee and kind of using this as a kind of a living memorial to him and chatting to him.
something like 870,000 comments and growing on that last post.
Do you see a change in the media?
Do you see a change in the approach to Chinese leadership that actually could lead to China swinging perhaps more to the centre just as perhaps American needs to swing more towards a Chinese model?
Unfortunately, not really because I think there is a way between authoritarian governments and its people to communicate.
the night that Dr. Lee died. When it was announced that he died, the Chinese social media just blew up.
Even though he was unjustly treated as a whistleblower, he still went to work in the hospital and try to save lives as a doctor and then he died because he contracted a disease.
So there was anger, frustration, and all that came out in kind of commemorating a figure that they feel that the government had wronged.
the verdict and the sort of the official voice on who is Dr. Lee.
is he a good guy or a bad guy completely changed 180 degrees.
He went from a doctor who misbehaved to the hero who warned the people.
So under authoritarian government, they still are very aware of public opinion. But on the other hand, when people complain and when they commemorate Dr. Lee, do they really want to change the system?
and my answer is no, because they don't like that particular decision, but they don't want to change the system.
And one of the reasons is because they have never, ever known another system.
This is the system they know how to work.
What is what throwing one?
Oh, walk throwing is when you blame somebody else.
Basically, someone who is responsible in a slang Chinese is someone who carries a black walk.
You are made to be the scapegoat to be for something that is bad.
So basically, Trump start calling it the Chinese virus, the Wuhan virus, and naming, trying to blame the entire coronavirus pandemic on the Chinese.
And then the Chinese, I think, through the walk back at the Americans.
So it was like a very funny joke on Chinese social media that walked throwing
There's a walk throwing gymnastics aerobics exercise video that went viral.
But tell us one, you're also doing dances on TikTok, right?
Oh, of course.
I'm doing a lot of walk throwing a reddit.
aerobics, um, tiktok. I mean, a potential silver lining of all of this is that it has laid bare some of the, you know, in inequities, inequalities in the system. Some of the broken structures that we have and if we're smart, we can rebuild better.
Yes.
I think one of the silver linings of this pandemic is that we do realize that human rays have to do something together rather than to be distinguished by our race, by the color of our skin or by our nationality, that this virus obviously is not discriminating against anyone, whether you're rich or poor, important or not important or whatever skin color or nationality you are.
So it is a time to be together rather than to try to pull the world apart and crawl back to our own nationalistic shells.
So beautiful sentiment.
Huang Heng, thank you so much for joining us from Beijing.
Stay wild, please.
Thank you, Helen, and you stay well as well.