I still have this TV image in my mind.
I could see the ball falling down.
I was so terrified.
really I was crying a lot.
Someone who knew my father and my mom grab my hand and he said, let's go.
school.
And it was like, where am I?
Mom, my mom, my mom. During nice wood here, shards, wood here, guns.
elections will suppose to happen.
We had young people going to the street, they were having strides.
and most of them people died.
We voted a fiesta
It was overloaded.
People were running for their life.
That is how I ifly from Somalia.
My mom, El Nisley.
Nobody told the highway.
The fact that we did not go to school, we couldn't go to the market, we were just stuck home. Made me realize that if I got an option to go for something better, I could just go for it and have a better future.
globally displaced people in the world that been increasing
Now they are almost 60 million people displaced in the world.
and unfortunately, it doesn't stop.
I think the humanitarian community is starting to realize from research and reality that we're talking about a much more permanent problem.
These students, they need a tertiary education degree that they can use.
If the students are living now in Rwanda, if they get relocated, still they can continue their study.
still their degree is useful, whatever they are.
Audacious project was to really test Southern New Hampshire University's global education movements, ability to scale, to bring bachelor's degrees and pathways to employment, to refugees and those who would otherwise not have access to higher education.
این باستی برد از رفیچی باستان تو فادم ایدی کشونان تو میک میکاریا
i mnemisayada atensayada, i m from Somalia.
我当时我早上的工作室在时,我会在买电话中
Now, I am doing my bachelor degree with...
my name is Nurea, don't bring the savvy day
I'm doing my brush-loved arts in communications with a concentration in business.
We are serving students across five different countries, Lebanon, Kenya, Malawi, Rwanda, and South Africa.
really proud to have 800 AA grads to over 400 bachelor's graduate and nearly a thousand students enrolled right now.
So the magic of this is that we're addressing refugee lives as they exist.
There are no classes.
there are no lectures.
There are no due dates.
There are no final exams.
This degree is competency-based and not time-bound.
You choose when you start your project.
YouTube is how you're going to approach it.
When you open the platform, that's where you can see the goals.
Under each go, we can find projects.
When you open the projects, you get the competencies that you have to master, directions and overview of the project.
projects. The secret sauce of SNHU is combining that competency based online learning with the in-person learning that we do with partners to provide all the wraparound supports.
That includes academic coaching.
It means psychosocial support, medical support, and it's also that back-end employment support that's really resulting in the 95% graduation, the 88% employment.
um, the social media management intern
It's related to the communications diagram doing.
I've learned so many things out of the projects and in the real world.
The structured internship is really an opportunity for students to practice their skills and for us to create connections between that internship and a later job opportunity.
This is a model that really stops putting time and university policies and procedures at the center and instead puts the student at the center.
The Jumodil is a big way to shake the tree.
You
you check today to the traditional way of having tertiary education here.
It can transform the lives of students from this vulnerable and refugee communities.
If I get the degree, I can just come back and work everywhere that I want.
I can go for masters, confidently in English, which is something that I would not have dreamed of before.
And I have the confidence and the skills required to actually go out and just talk to the workplace without having to fear that I can't make it.
I always wanted to work with the community.
I want to establish an unprofitable
We advocate for women education.
I want to be a someone who is like Ambasha, encourage them to learn and tell them it is never too late.
It's a dream.
June 8, 2010. Russ and Wilson, fourth round picked to the Colorado Rockies baseball.
I'm fired up, where the highest moments of my life.
Every kid's dream to be drafted by a major league baseball team.
June 8, 2010.
June 9, 2010.
And that passes away.
High to the high to low to low.
Just like that.
My dad laying his death bed just tears running down my face and you know what I do next.
My mind racing memories, flashbacks, moments, early mornings getting up, taking grounders and throwing, speedouts and deep posts routes to my brother and my dad to early morning car rides to AU Baseball to my dad being the third base coach.
Fast forward to the championship high of winning a Super Bowl holding up the Lombardi trophy and then motions an excitement of it all and blew and green confetti all over the place and knowing that you just want the Super Bowl to a year later the pressure of the game and the ball and the one-yard line and this is the chance to win the game and it doesn't work.
and however many millions and millions of people all over the world watching
and having to walk to the median, what do I say next? What do I do? What do I think?
being married at a young age and just coming out of college and everything else to short the after marriage not working out and realizing you know what
Life happens.
Life happens, life happens to all of us.
loss of family members divorce, fear pain, depression, concerns, worries.
When you think about being super positive, yes, I'm positive by nature, but positivity, it doesn't always work because when you're down 16, nothing, NFC championship game, if people are like Russ, we're not going to be able to win this game. It's not a great situation right now. When you're facing cancer, when you have things you have to deal with or finances and this and that, how do we deal with it?
It's hard to be positive in the midst of it all.
And what I definitely knew was this, a negativity works a hundred percent of the time.
The negativity was gonna get me nowhere.
I start saying to myself, new or his mercies every morning, new beginnings, new starts.
and despite hardship and pain and worries and wanting to get through it and how do I do this? I start thinking about a car.
You know you guys have drive a car and get stick shift and you want to shift to neutral?
You go from first year to second year all the way to fifth.
You gotta know how to shift to neutral.
I needed a shift in neutral immediately before I crashed.
sitting there after the Super Bowl, I had a decision to make. Well, I let this define my career
I'll let it define my life.
I'll know.
What I found out was this, the mindset of the skill.
It can be taught and learned.
I started 10 years ago, training my mind with this guy named Trevor Moe at my mental conditioning coach.
been with me for 10 years and we've been best friends and partners ever since.
As athletes we train the body, we train ourselves to be able to run fast and throw farther and jump higher and do these different things. But why don't we train our mind?
What do you want your life to have like?
right now, you know, talk about it, say it.
What's our language? What is our language look like? Watch these highlights for us of when you're in your best moments.
What does that look like?
And be that. Live that. Sound like that.
the best free throws shoes they don't worry about the shot they just miss
They think about this shot, this put, this throw, this first down.
Then I met this kid Milton Wright, 19 years old. He had cancer three different times.
This day when I went to see Milton Milton was frustrated, well, so I'm done. I don't want to do this anymore. It's my time to go and say Milton, I start telling the story about my dad and how my dad used to say, son, why not you?
why not you graduate early? Why not you play pro football on pro baseball?
Why not you? Why not you? Why not you? Why not you?
If you try to self-therapy and you try this and it doesn't work, you know, you won't remember. So Milton got a smile on his face and he said, you know what, you're exactly right.
Yes, I do have cancer, Russ.
But I can either let this kill me, not just physically, like an also let it kill me emotionally and mentally.
And I have a choice right now in the midst of the problem and the midst of the storm to decide to overcome. One of the questions I always get asked about neutral thinking is this, does that mean I don't have any emotion? I always say absolutely not.
Yeah, we have emotions. We have real life situations. We have things to deal with.
But what you have to be able to do is to stay focused on the moment and to not be super emotional.
It's okay to have emotions, but don't be emotional.
When people look at me, they see that on the highest paid player in the NFL, they see that I have the girl in Sierra, that I have the family in this and that.
But I still have real life situations.
We all
We all have sadness and loss in depression and worries and fear.
I didn't just get here.
What's the truth? And how do I come through this better?
And that's really kind of how my mind started shifting.
It was not just on the success of it all or the failure of it. It was on the process. What is the next step? How do I do this right here right now?
You have a choice to make in life.
And for me, when I was young and I didn't have much, I made a choice.
I made a choice that I was going to believe that great things were going to happen that I was going to have my mindset right and I was going to have the right language and the right things to think about which helped prepare me for the day.
because I'm just human.
I just have a ability to throw the ball a long way and run around and make some cool and fun throws and make some people smile.
But the reality is that I still have pressure. I still have worries. I still have fears. I still have things that happen.
still have laws.
positivity can be dangerous.
But what always works is negativity.
and never want to live in negativity. So I stayed in neutral.
I kept my shift in neutral.
And so that's why I lived. That's why I've been living ever since.
So I'd like to start if I may by asking you some questions.
If you've ever lost someone you truly love, ever had your heart broken, ever struggled through an acrimonious divorce, or been the victim of infidelity, please stand up.
If standing up is inaccessible to you, you can put your hand up.
Please stay standing and keep your hand up there.
If you've ever lived for a natural disaster, being bullied or being made redundant, stand on up.
if you've ever had a miscarriage, if you've ever had an abortion or struggle through infertility, please stand up.
Finally, if you or anyone you love has had to cope with mental illness dementia, some form of physical impairment or cope with suicide please stand up.
Look around you.
Adversity doesn't discriminate.
If you are alive, you are going to have to, or you've already had to, deal with some tough times.
Thank you, everyone. Take a seat.
I started studying Resilience Research a dec aedigo at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia.
Y'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n yma'n y
As you can imagine, you don't get a much more skeptical discerning audience than the American drill sergeants returning from Afghanistan.
Mae'n yw'n gwneud yn ymgymwys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgymmys i'n gwneud yn ymgym
Mae'n i'n amraka'n i'r atwneud i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n
I just begun that study when the Christchurch earthquakes hit.
So I put my research on holes and I started working with my home community to help them through that terrible post-quake period.
I work with all sorts of organisations from government departments to building companies and all sorts of community groups, teaching them the ways of thinking and acting that we know boost resilience.
I thought that was my calling.
Mae'n moment, a peol o fath rysarch, a gwydydd.
But sadly, I was wrong.
For my own true test came in 2014 on Queen's birthday weekend.
We and two other families had decided to go down to Lake O'Hell and bike the ounce to ocean.
At the last minute, my beautiful 12-year-old daughter Abby decided to hop in the car with her best friend Ella also 12, and Ella's mum Sally, a dear dear friend of mine.
On the way down, as they travelled through Rekaiya on Thompson's track, a car sped through a stop sign, crashing into them and killing all three of them instantly.
in the blink of an eye, I find myself flung to the other side of the equation, waking up with a whole new identity.
instead of being the resilience expert, suddenly, I'm the grieving mother.
waking up, not knowing who I am, trying to wrap my head around unthinkable news, my world smashed to smithereens.
Suddenly, I'm the one on the end of all this expert advice.
and I can tell you, I didn't like what I heard one little bit.
In the days after Abbey died, we were told we were now prime candidates for family estrangement.
mae'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n y
Wow, I remember thinking thanks for that. I thought my life was already pretty shit. Leaflets describe the five stages of grief, anger, bargaining, denial, depression, acceptance.
Fictim Support arrived at Ador and told us that we could expect to write off the next five years to grief.
I know the leaflets and the resources meant well.
But in all of their advice, they left us feeling like victims.
totally overwhelmed by the journey ahead and powerless to exert any influence over our grieving whatsoever.
I didn't need to be told how bad things were.
Believe me, I already knew things were truly terrible.
What I needed most was hope.
I needed a journey through all that anguish pain and longing.
Most of all, I wanted to be an active participant in my grief process.
So I decided to turn my back on their advice and decided instead to conduct something of a self-experiment.
I've done the research, I had the tools. I wanted to know how useful they would be to me now in the face of such an enormous mountain to climb.
Now I have to confess at this point. I don't really know if this was going to work.
Parental bereadment is widely acknowledged as the hardest of losses to bear.
But I can tell you now five years on what I already knew for the research.
that you can rise up from adversity, that there are strategies that work, that it is utterly possible to make yourself think and act in certain ways that help you navigate tough times.
There is a monumental body of research on how to do this stuff.
Today I'm just going to share with you three strategies.
These are my go-to strategies that I relied upon and saved me in my darkest days.
There are three strategies to underpin all of my work and they're pretty readily available to us all. Anyone can learn them. You can learn them right here today.
So number one, resilient people get that shit happens.
Mae'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
This doesn't mean they actually welcome mid-in. They're not actually delusional.
just that when the tough times come, they seem to know that suffering is part of every human existence.
and knowing this, stops you from feeling discriminated against when the tough times come.
Never once did I find myself thinking, why me? In fact, I remember thinking, why not me?
Terrible things happen to you just like they do everybody else.
That's your life now, time to sink or swim. The real tragedy is that not enough of us seem to know this any longer.
We seem to live on an age where we're entitled to a perfect life where shiny happy photos on Instagram are the norm when actually, as you all demonstrated at the start of my talk, the very opposite is true.
Number two, resilient people are really good at choosing carefully where they select their attention.
They have a habit of realistically appraising situations and typically managing to focus on the things that they can change and somehow accept the things that they can't.
This is a vital, learnable skill for resilience.
Yswyr yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud
We are hard wired for that negative.
We're really, really good at noticing them.
negative emotions stick to us like Velcro. Whereas positive emotions and experiences seem to bounce off like Tethalon.
Being wide in this way is actually really good for us and served us well from an evolutionary perspective.
So imagine for a moment I'm a cave woman and I'm coming out of my cave in the morning and there's a sabre to tiger on one side and a beautiful rainbow on the other.
It kind of pays for my survival for me to notice this tiger.
The problem is, we now live in an era where we are constantly bombarded by threats all day long. And our poor brains treat every single one of those threats, as though they were a tiger.
Our threat focus, our stress response is permanently dialed up.
resilient people don't diminish the negative, but they also have worked out a way of tuning into the good.
One day when doubts were threatening to overwhelm me, I distinct your remember thinking, no, you do not get to get swallowed up by this.
you have to survive.
You've got so much to live for.
Choose life, not death.
don't lose what you have to watch, you have lost. In psychology we call this benefit finding.
in my brave new world, it involves trying to find things to be grateful for.
At least our week ago hadn't died of some terrible long drawn out illness.
she died suddenly instantly sparing us and her that pain.
We had a huge amount of social support from family and friends to help us through.
And most of all, we still had two beautiful boys to live for, who needed us now and deserve to have as normal a life as we could possibly give them.
Mae'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
So in 2005, Marty Seligman and colleagues conducted an experiment.
and they asked people, all they asked people to do was think of three good things that had happened to them each day.
Mae'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
When you're going through grief, you might need a reminder, well, you might need permission to feel grateful.
In our kitchen we've got a bright pink neon poster that reminds us to accept the good.
In the American Army, they framed it a little bit differently.
Mae'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
Find the language that works for you, but whatever you do, make an intentional, deliberate, ongoing effort to tune into what's good in your world.
Number three, resilient people ask themselves, is what I'm doing, helping or harming me. This is a question that's used a lot in good therapy.
And boy, is it powerful?
This was my go-to question in the days after the girls died.
I would ask it again and again.
Should I go to the trial and see the driver?
would that help me? Or would it harm me? Well, that was a no-brainer for me. I chose to stay away.
But Trevor and my husband decided to meet with the driver at a later time.
Late at night, I'd find myself sometimes pouring over old photos of Abby getting more and more upset.
I'd ask myself really?
Is this helping you or is it harming you?
put away the photos go to bed for the night be kind to yourself. This question can be applied to so many different contexts.
Is the way I'm thinking and acting helping or harming you in your bid to get that promotion? To pass that exam, to recover from a heart attack.
so many different ways.
I write a lot about resilience and over the years this one strategy has prompted more positive feedback than any other.
I get scores of letters and emails and things from all over the place that people saying what a huge impact it's had on their lives.
Whether it is forgiving family, ancient, transgressions, arguments from Christmas's past, and whether it is just trolling through social media, whether it is asking yourself whether you really need that extra glass of wine,
asking yourself whether what you're doing, the way you're thinking, the way you're acting, is helping or harming you, puts you back in the driver's seat.
It gives you some control over your decision-making.
Three strategies.
pretty simple.
They're readily available to us all any time, anywhere.
They don't require rocket science.
Resilience isn't some fixed trait.
It's not a lucid that some people have and some people don't.
It's actually requires very ordinary processes.
just a willingness to give them a go.
I think we all have moments in life where our life past splits and the journey we thought we were going down, say some terrible fears off to some terrible direction that we never anticipated and we certainly didn't want.
It happened to me.
It was awful beyond imagining.
If you ever find yourself in a situation where you think there's no way I'm coming back from this, I urge you to lean into these strategies and think again.
I won't pretend that thinking this way is easy.
and it doesn't remove all the pain.
But if I've learned anything over the last five years, it is that thinking this way really does help.
More than anything, it is shown me that it is possible to live and grieve at the same time.
Yn yw'n gwneud yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ym
Thank you.
So here we are.
I'm at home as I'm sure many of you are too.
And we've all begun to understand how our relationship with ourselves, with each other, and the spaces we exist in can deeply impact our sense of identity and purpose.
So much has dramatically changed.
There's a sense of distance now unlike ever before.
But what if I told you that you could find a way from your heart to your hand to reconnect again? And that through this practice and embracing this pause, I could help you to recalibrate your mind so that you could explore this new reality with joy, enthusiasm, imagination and hope.
and all it would take is a simple pen.
to get you there, let's go back to the beginning.
As a kid growing up in a council state in southeast London, I was an outsider.
i'n y oedd ys of 6 kids, y oedd mys ywn yn yngwneud, yngwneud, yngwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud, ydblwneud,
And then there was me, half my gerion, brown with an afro.
So what happens when you look different and you feel different? And in many ways start to think differently from everyone and everything around you.
How do you find your way out of a dark racist, homophobic and very lonely place?
This is where the pen comes in.
I started to draw.
So as you can see, I've got this pen and it knows where it's going.
And I learned very well how to follow it.
And the first thing I did is I followed this line and I drew myself out of a culture that was only telling me what I couldn't do.
I trusted my pen and it led me to central saint Martin's a very fancy art school in London where I graduated top of my year.
However, I soon realized there wasn't a place for me in London. Because, however, you wish to believe it or not, England is still a country that is rooted and functions within the class system.
And there's a young black gay female artist from a working class family. I didn't stand the chance.
So I left London and I moved to Japan where I didn't experience people asking me where I was really from.
I was just another guy, which ironically means outside her. I was immersed in the culture that honours both making and craft, where people perfected craft over generation.
It's a culture that masters both time and space so that artists can truly create with freedom.
And what I discovered was a place I wasn't angry with.
Tokyo hadn't wronged me in any way.
I could no longer create with anger or out of pain.
I had to bravely allow myself to create from a different perspective.
And what I found is this incredible tour transcended a line on paper.
I found this thing that connected my head to my heart and my hand to everything.
I could see the world in new ways.
I found connections and corners and the solutions to problems I never knew existed.
It's like the world with always positive and negative spaces could now be seen.
And just by seeing it, there was no longer any fit.
It's like my pen was a flashlight and the unknown was still there, but it wasn't scary.
After five years of living in Japan and focusing on my craft, I felt like I needed a new challenge.
So I move to New York because that's what you do as an artist, right?
You move to the greatest city in the world, as the ability to make you feel completely and utterly invisible.
This is when I began to truly ask myself who are you? I would wake up in the morning and before I began my day, I would meditate on this.
And with this question in mind, I kept drawing.
I follow the line.
I let it lead the way.
The process of picking up a pen, something everyone has access to. The act of giving myself permission to let go of all thoughts, all fears, insecurities, any thing that we're getting away or allowing myself to be completely mean. That became my way of experiencing freedom.
When I got to New York, I didn't want to play by the rules of the art world.
I continue to my practice as an outsider.
I kept roaring.
Curiosity became the ink from my pen and I continued to dive deeper.
Over time, I began to create a bold, confident space for myself. A space that was all my own.
Initially it was just my bedroom.
But that bedroom ended up in the New York Times. And suddenly I was being seen and known for this world I had created.
Since then, I've created and collaborated with some of the most unique artists, institutions and spaces, from the screens of time square to the New York City Ballet for their incredible artist series, where I interviewed a number of dancers.
Their stories and words became the foundation of over 30 drawings and artworks, which took over the promenade walls, windows and floors.
For a long time, I wanted to create a space for contemplation and poetry.
And in 2019, I was given the opportunity to do just that by the trust of Governor's Island.
They provide you with the perfect canvas in the form of a form of military chapel.
Meet the Maveram. With drawings on the exterior, inspired by the history of the island, you walk inside, you take your shoes off, and there's a drawing on the floor in a form of a maze that brings you back to you.
It's an invitation to become calm.
and this allows you to see phrases on the wall.
May you be wise, may you sleep soundly at night, may we save trees, may you, may you, may we, and these phrases seem like they're rising from you or falling into you.
I've let my lines become much like a language. A language that has unfolded much like lines.
And when there has been silence, I've sought connection with conversation. Asking questions to push through the discomfort.
Drawing has taught me how to create my own rules.
It has taught me to open my eyes and see not only what is but what can be.
and where there are broken systems, we can create new ones that actually function and benefit all instead of just a select few.
Drawing has taught me how to fully engage with the well.
and what I've come to realize through this language of lines is not the importance of being seen, but rather the gift of seeing that we give to others. And how true freedom is the ability to see.
And I don't mean that literally because sight is only one way in which one can see.
But what I mean is to experience the world in its entirety. Maybe even more so during the most challenging moments, like the one we face today.
I'm Shanta Martin.
I draw.
And I invite you to pick up a pen and see where it takes you.
All right.
I have a close tightness circle of friends.
We're all in different cities, and we're all in different areas. From local news to city government to law, financial services.
And despite those different areas, we see in the shared similar stories of workplace drama.
Now, I define workplace drama as an annoyance that adds additional stress to the job.
So again, this one, people get all your notes. Not the job itself.
So as we're going through these stories, I'm realizing there has to be a better way for us to co-exist with our co-workers without this much drama.
So I created a few steps that have been working for me and I'm happy to share with you guys today.
Step one, rewind and reflect. Also known as, what did I do? I want you guys to all replay your most recent workplace drama situation in your head like a movie.
Ignore all the emotion and just focus on you.
But for now, let's just think about this hypothetical. So you're on a group project. You each have your own individual assignments, and then you all divide up the work.
But then someone becomes unresponsive. Not answering calls, they go ghost.
Then you or someone else has to now pick up that additional slack.
So in a brief, small, very tiny, laps in judgment, you've been to the nearby coworker.
Then all of a sudden your ghost comes back and they surprisingly know everything you just said.
Now what did I do in this situation?
I get to someone who was not my confidant.
Why would I do that?
Sometimes we create this unspoken bond with people that only exist in our heads.
They don't owe me their discretion.
I just assumed it was there.
So we're not gonna go down the rabbit hole trying to figure out why they did that.
It doesn't matter.
They dare it.
But the goal in this step is self-reflection.
We need to focus on what did we do so we can avoid it in the future.
Step two, come back to reality. Also known as, in a society. So you guys ever think about problems before you get to work?
Oh, it's just me.
Okay. Well, I'm guilty of it.
I think about all of these situations in my head and then I get mad just thinking about it.
So I'm telling myself, no, you're just being prepared, Stacy. You are just making sure that you can handle whatever they're about to throw at you.
What you're really doing is setting yourself up and creating this anxiety in your head. That doesn't exist.
Then we also have to be careful about listening to other people's made-ups in areas.
Here's what I mean.
Let's say you're in the break room and you're talking to some co-workers.
Then all of a sudden, I know the coworker comes in.
Now they seem to just be in deep thought. Not overly cheerful, but they're not rude.
They come in, they walk out.
Then the co-workers over here begin to diagnose what they feel is wrong with that person.
There's anything like, oh, there's just mad, didn't get the job. Or they're saying, oh no, no, no, no, no, they're in this season. They're just always upset. And you're sitting here like, yep, yep, that must be it.
You're listening to this as if this is facts.
Meanwhile, this coworker can be in deep thought about literally anything.
They can just open a pack of strawberries, got four yellows back to bet, and then just try to figure out what happened.
So there made up scenario that now can impact how you choose to interact with that person throughout the day.
Whether we're creating fake stories in our head or listening to other people made up stories, it needs to stop.
The goal in this step, stop stressing over things that haven't happened.
All right.
step three, vent and release.
It's good to have a bit buddy.
This is your coach, your cheerleader, your therapist, whatever you need them to be in the moment.
This is not like that person is stuff one that just happened to be an ear side.
You have an established relationship with your event buddy.
Now here's another scenario.
You're getting ready to tell a customer or client something that they just don't want to hear.
So as you're in the middle of the spill, up comes another coworker and they interrupt you and then says the exact same thing you were saying.
So you can't make a scene in front of a customer.
You just, so you gotta sit back and just listen. I'll say do this.
and you've burned it up inside.
So what do we do?
We go to our vet buddy.
We talk about it.
We did mad.
And that's the time for that.
Get mad!
Get angry.
Curse, screen do whatever you need to do to get it out.
Now here's the hard part. You then have to switch that tone to positivity.
I truly believe in positive and negative energy and it has a way of controlling our moods throughout the day.
You gotta think of things like, okay, where do I go from here?
What can I do differently? And then if you're the vet buddy is your responsibility to lead your firm back to the positive.
Now the other hard part, you have to then apply those learnings to the situation.
You can't carry that resentment around.
If you do, that one-off situation now becomes a pattern.
pattern behavior is harder to ignore than a one-off situation.
The goal in this step is let's turn our productive event session. Well, let's turn our event session into a productive conversation. Step four, learn a new language. Also known as, we need to talk. Guys, I personally don't like to pick up the phone at work.
I just don't.
I feel like whatever you need to say to me can be an instant message or an email.
That is my work, LeWitch.
The only problem with that, you can't hear tone through an email.
I read emails the same way I speak. Some pretty sure I misinterpreted some talent before. Unless I know you.
So here's an example.
I'm gonna show you guys an email and I want you to read it and then I'm a read it out loud.
Alright, that was fast enough. You should have read it.
Stacy, thank you for reaching out about my group.
At this time, we will not need any additional support.
going for it. If I feel we need help, I'll ask you to have the reach out.
per my life email, a text below, about land what I do and what you do so we can avoid this in the future.
as always thank you for your partnership.
That's how you write it.
Because there are certain words in there that if you hear or if you see in an email, it is safe to assume they type it with their middle finger.
I didn't know it this.
I know and now.
I think I messed up some people's emails.
they're correcting now.
With all that said, you have to know when it is time to pick up the phone.
You have to know when it's time to have a face to face.
In these face-to-face conversations are not easy.
They are difficult, but they are necessary.
The goal is to try to understand the other person's perspective.
So you'll start the conversation with things like, okay, you got upset when I, or you'll say things like, okay, you already had the situation handled and then I, so that way you can see exactly where they're coming from.
Also, don't try to make people like you.
We all have our own up-bring.
all have our own experiences.
and we all have our own communications side.
As the new generations are entering the workforce, we're also adapting to it.
meetings are now emails.
emails are now 10.
All sites are now Skype.
So as we're adjusting to that, we need to at least try to understand what type of style of communication they use.
The goal in that step is to really understand their work language and accept the fact that it may be different than yours.
Depth, five, recognize and protect. Also known as, we need to take a walk. So here's my last scenario for one of my teacher friends.
You're about to have a meeting with a parent. And prior to it, you and a coworker, you kind of discussed it. And the coworker tells you, this is all right. I got your back.
I'm going to agree with your recommendations. So you're kind of sad I know because they burned you before, but you've had that we need to talk. So you're like, we're in sync now. I'm going to trust them. You go through the meeting, the parents disagrees with you, and like clockwork, the co-worker agrees with the parent in front of you, making you look ridiculous.
So you just, again, we can't make a scene in front of people, right?
So, we got to hold it in.
And then after the meeting, that same coworker has all the audacity comes up to you as it cries and eating, right?
the testing.
It's a test.
So that's the perfect time to just go off, right?
This is the repeat of Fender.
You'll walk the way and they came back with it.
But we're trying to avoid workplace drama not take a cannonball leap into it so we have to walk away.
You leave that conversation by taking the first available exit.
You're not doing this for them.
You're doing this for you.
You have to protect your energy.
Don't try to figure out why they would do this and no more coming to Jesus conversations.
What it is, what it is, they did what they did and given the opportunity they'd probably do it again.
But you now know that.
You now recognize that.
so that way you can act accordingly.
We typically try to set expectations, our expectations on other people, and then get disappointed when they don't follow through.
We have to learn to accept people where they are and adjust ourselves to handle those situations.
The goal in this step is to recognize when it is time to professionally walk away from someone.
guys I realized these steps may come off as saying take the high road and people always say
Just take the hyerah and they describe it as some elegant path of righteousness filled with rainbows and unicorns.
is not that.
It's embarrassing.
It's humiliating.
It leaves this not of resentment in the pit of your stomach.
And as her traveling down this amazing high road, you see billboards, the things you should have said, and things you should have did.
You go over there, you look at the easy route, and they're chilling. Now we're at
but I have to admit, the more I travel down this road, it does get a little easier.
Petty situations, they don't bother me as much.
I learned little nuggets here and there.
And as I continue down this path, there seems to be more opportunities waiting for me.
I have liked minded people who want to connect with me. Projects that people want me on, leaders reaching out because they heard about me through someone else.
in the best part.
The needs that even look at the easy row is no longer there.
Guys, we're not going to change the way adults act in the workplace.
We are not.
And for that reason, there will always be workplace drama.
But if we stick to these steps and put in the work that comes with it, we can learn to avoid it.
Guys, thank you for being my vet buddies.
And thank you so much for your time.
At the Temple of the Fisherman, Kexo, the village shaman looks out over the ocean and frowns.
It's a still morning, unusually still. And the lack of wind is the latest in a series of troubling signs.
The year is 1400 BCE.
Kexo's village sits in the dusty, treeless desert between the towering andes and Pacific Ocean.
The villagers live off the sea, harvesting reeds, drying them in the sun, and using them to build fishing boats.
Every day in the summer, the men set out on these boats to hunt shark and other fish, while the women harvest shellfish and sea urchants.
in winter storms bring powerful waves, which cross the vast ocean unobstructed to detonate on these shores.
Most years, Kexos Village catches more than enough fish.
But this year, the winds have died and the fish have dwindled.
Kexo has seen this pattern before. The fish disappear, then the violent rains arrive, causing flash floods that dissolve mud bricks and wash away settlements.
He needs to stop the bad weather before the storm's come. His only hope is a special ritual he's been planning.
Kexo spends much less time in the ocean than the other
He became a shaman after seeing a sign in the sea one morning, like his father and grandfather before
This morning, he walks to the nearby Sacred Mountain as the sun rises.
They are he gathers ceremonial cactus and herbs like horse tail, stonebreaker and Valerian, along with the mineral hematite.
Back in the village, everyone is preparing to leave for a religious festival at a large temple inland.
The festival marks the beginning of what is usually the season of abundance, but with the signs pointing to storms, Kexo isn't feeling too celebratory.
whole families travel to the festival where they camp for a few days.
They've packed seaweed, carved bones, gold bowls, readmats, and other goods to trade in the market around the temple.
Kexo inspects the goods to make sure everything is of the finest quality.
He brings the herbs he gathered to trade for Sinabar, a mineral that comes from the Highlands in the Andes.
He needs Sinabar for his ritual to ward off the storms.
around lunchtime, the sprawling temple rises out of the desert ahead.
people have come from all along the coast and the foothills.
the women handle trade transactions. They're looking for cotton and ceramics.
men aren't usually allowed to do the trading, but shamans are an exception.
Though Kexo is a man, during rituals, he becomes half-man, half-woman. And this ambiguity makes his role more flexible outside ceremonies, too.
Kexo can't find any Sinobar in the market, so he heads to the main temple, dodging children playing in the plaza.
He puts on his ceremonial garb, red face paint, earrings, and a necklace of shark's teeth and vertebrae.
Inside, the ceremonies are already underway, and the shamans have drunk the sacred cactus drink.
Many of them are kexos friends from festivals over the years, but he doesn't see the mountain shamans who would have Sinobar.
He begins to panic.
If the Highland Shaman's don't show up, his only option will be to make the long walk into the mountains.
It's a dangerous journey that takes five days. Precious time, he doesn't have to waste.
but perhaps he has no choice.
He refuses the sacred cactus and sets off toward the mountains.
as he leaves the settlement behind. He sees a group approaching.
He recognizes them as Highlanders by their llamas.
he dashes toward their shaman.
Barely pausing to say hello, he offers him heenotype, dried seaweed, and empty shells to grind up for lime, and chew with cocoa leaves.
In return, the other Shaman gives him the precious
With the key to his ritual in hand, Kexo heads home to the temple of the fisherman in hopes of turning the tide.
Hello, take community, welcome back for another live conversation.
It's a big one today. Speak this day, Gat.
You know, when we created this build-back better series, I thought was how could we address issues arising out of the pandemic, how we imagine building back from that?
But the events of this past week, the horrific death of George Floyd and the daily protests that have followed, I mean they provided a new urgency which we have, of course, simply have to address.
I mean can we build back better from this?
I think before we can even start to answer that question, we just have to seek to understand the immensity of this moment.
Yeah, that's, that's right Chris.
right now so many people in the United States and beyond are grappling with feelings of anger and frustration, deep, deep sadness and really helplessness.
no matter who you are, you have questions about what to do now, how to make things better.
And as we've seen violence like this unfold for many, many years.
What is the path for
So we're joined today by a group of activists, organizers and leaders, known for their crucial work in social justice and civil rights.
It was so grateful to have them here to engage in a discussion about racial injustice in America, the unbearable acts of violence that we've, the acts of violence against the black community that we've witnessed. The dangers to a nation, driven by anger and fear,
And how an Earth we can move forward from this to something better.
Mae'n yw'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'
and then will engage as a group, including you, the tech community.
And we'd like to thank our partner, the Project Management Institute.
their generous support has helped make today's interviews possible and of course as Chris mentioned, we want you to take part in the conversation. So please share your questions using our Ask for Question Teacher and continue to share your thoughts in the discussion thrive.
Thanks, Wendy.
Okay, let's get this moving.
of a guest.
Dr. Philip Atuber, Gough, is the founder of the Centre for Police in Equity.
They work with police departments across America, including in Minneapolis, to seek measurable responses to racial violence.
So I can scarcely imagine how to stress in the last week must have been for you.
Welcome and over to your opening comments.
Thanks Chris.
Yeah, this week has been a gut punch to anybody who felt like we could be making progress in the way that we put forward public safety that empowers particularly vulnerable communities.
We started working in Minneapolis about five years ago.
At the time, it was like most major cities in the United States, a department that had a long history of unaccounted for violence, from law enforcement, targeting the most vulnerable Black communities.
and we try to put into place a number of things that we know work.
change the culture so that the culture can be accountable to the values of the community.
And what we saw was small, but measurable progress.
We always knew with small and measurable progress that you're one tragic incident from going back to ground zero.
But the events of the last week and a half haven't brought us back to ground zero, they've torched ground zero and we've dug a hole. We have to dig ourselves out of it.
What I hear from police chiefs who call me from activists I talk to from folks in the communities that are on literally on fire right now. I hear a folks saying I had one act to say to me that the pain that he was feeling was too large to fit into his body.
without thinking about us at right back, that's because it's too large to fit into a lifetime. What we're seeing isn't just the response to one gruesome, cruel, public execution.
A LINSHIT.
It's not just the reaction to three of them, Ahmad Arbery, Rihanna Taylor, and then George Floyd.
What we're seeing is the Bill Come Do for the unpaid debts that this country owes to its black residents.
and it comes due usually every 20 to 30 years.
It was first in just six years ago, about 30 years before that, it was in the streets of Los Angeles after the verdict that exonerated the police that beat Rodney King on video.
It was Newark, it was Wants, it was Chicago, it was Tulsa, it was Chicago again.
If we don't take a full accounting of these debts that are owed, then we're gonna keep paying it.
Part of what I've been experiencing in the last week and a half and what I've been sharing with the people who do this work, who are serious about it, is the acknowledgement, the soul crushing reality that at some point when things stop being on fire, the cameras are going to turn to something else.
And the history that we have in this country is not just a history of vicious neglect and a targeted use of black communities. It's also one where we lose our attention for it.
And what that means for communities like in Baton Rouge, where those who still grieve Altman Sterling, and in Baltimore for those who are still grieving for Eddie Gray, is that there is not just a chance there's a likelihood that we are a month or two months out from this with no more to show for it than what we had to show after Michael Brown Jr. And holding the weight of that, individually and collectively is just too much.
It's just too heavy load for a person or a people or a generation to hold up.
What we're seeing is the unrepentant sense, the unpaid debts.
And so the solution can't just be that we fix policing.
It can't be only incremental reform.
It can't be only systems of accountability to catch cops after they've killed somebody.
because there's no such thing as justice for George Floyd.
There's maybe accountability.
There's maybe some relief from the people who are still around who loved him for his daughter, who spoke out yesterday and said, my daddy changed the world. There won't be justice for a man who's dead when he didn't have to be.
but we're not going to get to where we need to go just by reforming police.
So in addition to the work that CPE is known for with the data, we have been encouraging departments and cities to take the money that should be going to invest in communities and take it from police budgets, bring it to the communities.
People ask, well, what could possibly look like?
How could we imagine it? And I tell people, there is a place where we do this in the United States right now.
We've all heard about it, whispered some of us have even been there, some of us live there.
The place is called the suburbs. When we already have enough resources to give to people so they don't need the police for public safety in the first place.
If someone has a substance abuse issue, they can go to a clinic.
If somebody has a medical issue, they can go, they've gotten sure they can go to a hospital.
If there's a domestic dispute, they have friends, they have support.
You don't need to enter a badge and a gun into it.
If we hadn't disinvested from all the public resources that were available in communities that most needed those, we wouldn't need police in the first place. And then you have been arguing even more loudly recently that we don't.
if we would just take the money that we use to punish and instead invest it in the promise and the genius of the community that could be there.
So I don't know all the ways we're going to get there.
I know it's going to take everything in.
It's going to need the kind of systemic change and the management tools that we traditionally offer.
It's also going to need a quantum change in the way that we think about public safety.
But mostly this isn't just a policing problem.
This is the unpaid debts that are owed to Black America.
The bill is coming due.
and we need to start getting an accounting together so we're not just paying off the interest of the dam.
Thank you, Phil.
For shop Robinson is the president of color of change. It's a civil rights organization that advocates for racial justice for the black community.
Today more than 4 million people have signed their petition to arrest the officers involved in the murder of George Floyd.
And of course one was the rest of last week.
Thank you so much for being with us for Shad. Welcome.
Thank you.
And thank you for having me.
It's an opportunity that I'm taking today to just tell you about how you can get involved.
how you can take action and because right now strategic action is critical for all of us to do the work to change the rules that far too often keep the systems in place that hold us back.
make no mistake. The criminal justice system is not broken.
It is operating exactly the way it was designed.
at every single level, the criminal justice system is not about providing justice. But about ensuring that certain people, certain communities are protected while other communities are violated.
And so I want to talk a little bit today about color of change, about activism, about the work that's happening on the ground from other organizations, around the country, and the way that you can channel this energy
When we talk about a color of changes, how do you channel presence into power?
far too often we must take presence in visibility for power presence retweets the stories of the movement people feeling passion about change can sometimes make us feel like change is inevitable but power is actually the ability to change the rules
And right now, every day people are taking action and what we're trying to channel that energy into as a couple of things.
First is a whole set of demands at the federal level and at the local level.
and as Phil described that policing, you know, operates on many different channels.
And what we need to recognize is that while there are a lot of things that can happen at the federal level locally all around the country, there are decisions that are being made in communities around how policing is executed, where community needs to hold a deeper level of accountability at the state level, we knew new laws.
So at color of change, we've built a whole platform around a set of demands that are working to build more energy of everyday people to take action.
We're fighting for justice for a mod robbery, Breonna Taylor and George Floyd. We're also fighting for justice for other folks whose names that you haven't heard, Nina Pop, and others who's stories of injustice and the relationship to the criminal justice system represent all the ways in which fighting right now is important.
Over the last couple of years, we have worked to build a movement to hold district attorneys accountable and to change the role of district attorneys in our country.
And through the winning justice platform at color of change, www.winningjustice.org, what we have worked to do is channel the energy of everyday people to take action
So for folks who are watching what's happening on TV, see them on their social media feeds and are outraged about what's happening in Georgia, what's happening in Tennessee, what's happening in Minnesota, you yourself, probably most likely, live in a place in a community where you have a district attorney that will not hold police accountable, that will not prosecute police when they harm her, Black folks, when they violate the laws, you live in a community where police are part of the structure that is racking up mass incarceration, but many other aspects of our system are racking up in mass incarceration and district attorneys are at the center of it.
You live in those communities and you need to do something about it.
And so at winning justice.org, we've created the only searchable national database on the 2400 prosecutors around the country.
We're building local squads and communities for folks to be able to engage around an efforts to hold DAs accountable.
We've worked with our partners across the movement from our friends and Black Lives Matter to folks who are due policy work to our friends at local ACO, you chapters around the country to build six demands.
Six demands that folks can get behind in terms of pushing for reform and then we build public education material.
But the only way that we work to change the way that prosecution happens in this country is that if people get involved.
If people raise their voice, if people join us in pushing for real change.
At the end of the day, I want people to recognize, though, and feel up, talk a little bit about this, is that people don't experience issues they experience life.
That the forces that hold us back are deeply interrelated, racist criminal justice system requires a racist media culture to survive a political inequality follows economic inequality and they all go hand in hand.
And so I also want us to not take ourselves out of the equation.
We likely work inside of corporations that may post symbols for black lives matter one day and then support politicians that work to destroy black lives matter the next day.
We oftentimes are engaged in practices inside of our companies, our daily lives, supporting media properties and others that are harming our communities, our telling stories.
Recently, we produced a report at Color of Change with the Norman Lear School at U.S.C.
It's called normalizing injustice and it can be found that
normalizing injustice looks at the 22 crime procedures those crime shows on TV.
and looks at all of the ways in which they sort of create a worked perception about our view of justice.
They create sort of an incentive for the type of policing we see on the country and actually serve as a PR arm for law enforcement.
We've been working in writers' rooms around the country to work to push folks to tell better stories, but we need folks to be both active listeners and we need folks in the industry to push back and challenge those not only the structures that lead to that content coming on the air, but the proliferation across our airweaves.
At the end of the day, we have an opportunity in this moment to make change.
And flexion points are those moments where we have an opportunity to make huge leaps forward or the real real threat of falling backwards.
In our hands is the ability to do some incredible things about undoing so many of the injustices that have stood in the way of progress for far too long.
but every day people must get involved.
We must challenge, channel that presents, um, into power. And we must build the type of power that changes the rules.
Racism in so many ways is like water pouring over a floor with holes in it.
every single way it will find the holes.
And so for us, we cannot simply accept charitable solutions to structural problems, but we actually have to work for structural change.
And so I want to end by saying one thing about how we talk about black people and how we talk about black communities in this moment.
because we have to say what we mean and we have to build the narrative that gets us to where we want to go.
So far too often we talk about black communities as vulnerable. We talk about black people as vulnerable, but vulnerability is a personal trait. Black communities have been under attack.
Black communities have been exploited. Black communities have been targeted and we need to say that. So we don't put the onus on fixing Black families and Black communities. But we put the onus on fixing the structures that have harmed
We will say things like black people are less likely to get loans from banks instead of saying that banks are less likely to get loans to black people.
This is our opportunity to build the type of progress that makes real change. And at that center of the story, we need to show and elevate the images not just of the pain that we are facing, but of the joy, the brilliance and the creativity that black people have brought to this country.
Black people are the protagonist of this story. And we need to make sure that as we work to build a new tomorrow, we ensure that the heroes are at the center of the liberation that we all need.
Thank you.
Thanks for watching.
King is the CEO of the King Center in Atlanta, Georgia.
the center is a living memorial to her father, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. It's dedicated to inspiring new generations to carry his work forward.
In this moment when so many are hurting, how can we better approach unity and collective healing?
Dr. King over to you.
My heart is a little heavy right now because I was that six year old.
I was five years old with my father was assassinated.
and he did change the world.
But the tragedy is that we didn't hear what he was saying to us as a prophet to his destination.
And his words are now reverberating back to us.
change, we all know is necessary right now.
And here it's not easy.
We know that there has to be changes in policing in this nation of ours.
But I want to talk about America's choice at a greater level.
The prophet said to us, we still have a choice today, nonviolent coexistence or violent correlation. What we have witnessed over the last eight days has placed that choice before us.
We have seen literally in the streets of our nation. People who have been following the path of nonviolent protests and people who have been held bit on destruction.
those choices are now looking at us and we have to make a choice.
The history of this nation was founded in violence.
In fact, my father said America is the greatest perveyor of violence.
And the only way forward is if we repent for being a nation built on violence.
And I'm not just talking about physical violence.
I'm talking about systemic violence, I'm talking about policy violence, I'm talking about where he's folk over the triple eagles of poverty, racism, and militarism.
Oh, bye.
Albert Einstein said something to us.
He said, we cannot solve problems on the same level of thinking in which they were created.
And so if we are going to move forward
But we are going to have to deconstruct the systems of violence that we have seen America and we are going to have to reconstruct on another foundation.
That foundation happens to be love and nonviolence.
And so as we move forward, we can correct course if we make that choice that Daddy said nonviolent coexistence.
and not continue on the pathway of violent courts.
So what does that look like?
That looks like some deconstruction work in order to get to the construction.
We have to deconstruct our thinking.
We got a deconstruct the way in which we see people and deconstruct the way in which we operate practice and engage in set policy.
And so I believe that there's a lot of heart ATART work to do in the midst of all the ATARD hard work to do.
because heart work is hard work.
One of the things we have to do is we have to ensure that everyone, especially my white brothers and sisters, have to engage in the heartwork, the entire racism work in our hearts.
No one is exempt from this, especially in my white community.
We must do that work in our hearts, the anti-racism work.
The second thing is that I encourage people to look at the non-violet training that we've the king center, the king center about org, so that we learn the foundation of understanding our interrelatedness and interconnected
that we understand our lawyers and our commitments and our policy making can no longer be devoted to one group of people but has to be devoted to the greater good of all people.
And so I'm inviting people to even join us on our online protest that's happening every night at 7 o'clock PM on the King Center Facebook page because so many people have things that they want to express and contribute to this
we all have to change and have to make a choice.
It is a choice to change the direction that we have been going.
We need a revolution of values in this country.
That's what my daddy said.
He changed the world, he changed hearts. And now, what has happened over the last seven, eight years through history, we have to change course.
And we all have to participate in changing America with a true revolution of values where people are at the center and not profit.
when morality is at the center and not our military might.
America does have a choice.
We can even choose to go down continually that path of destruction or we can choose nonviolent coexistence.
And as my mother said, struggle is a never ending process. Freedom is never really one.
You earn it and win it in every generation.
Every generation is called to this freedom struggle.
You as a person may want to exempt yourself, but every generation is called.
And so I encourage corporations in America to start doing anti-racism work within corporate America.
I encourage every industry to start doing anti-racism work and pick up the banner of understanding nonviolent change personally and from a social change perspective.
We can do this.
We can make the right choice to ultimately build the beloved community.
Thank you.
Thank you Dr. King.
And that you were Merrow is the executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union.
As one of the nation's oldest social justice organizations, the ACLU has advocated for racial equality and shown deep support to the Black community in moments of crisis.
And in moments like these black voices are almost always the loudest and at times the silence from our non black white brothers, non black brothers and sisters, other can feel death and
how we can bring our allies into the next two better support ending systemic violence and racism against the Black communities. A question, top of mind for a lot of us.
Anthony welcome to the show and thank you so much for being with us.
Great.
Thank you, thank you Whitney and thank you Chris for inviting me to join this tech community.
I think community is really important right now.
With so many of us feeling the trepidation, the wearingness, the anger, the fear, the frustration, the terrorism that we've experienced in our communities.
This is a time to huddle around a virtual campfire with your posse with your family, with your loved ones, with your network.
It's not a time to be isolated or alone.
And I think for allies in this struggle, those of us who don't live this experience every day. It is time for us to lean in.
You can't change the channel. You can't tune out. You can't say this is too hard. It is not that hard for us to listen and learn and heed.
It is the only way we're going to build out of this by hearing the voices of Rashad and Phil and Dr. King.
by hearing the voices of our neighbors and loved ones, by hearing the voices on Twitter, people who we don't know.
and so white communities and allied organizations need to pay even closer attention.
This is the test of your character.
how well are you willing to lean in and to engage?
For me, I have these, these have been really hard couple weeks.
I feel like this is really a test of whether or not we really believe in the American experiment.
Do we really believe it?
to be really believe that out of many one that a country with no unifying language, no unifying culture, no unifying religion, can we really become one people?
All equal before the law.
all bound together with belief in the rule of law.
Do we really believe that or do we just think it's a nice saying to see on the back of a paper dollar?
And for me, this is a rough random American experiment.
on whether we really believe.
The future is in our hands.
And this is not like other crisis. I've been the head of the ACLU for almost 20 years. I feel like I've seen it all.
This is different.
And this is different because it is cumulative, like Phil and Rashad and Dr. King told us this is centuries of systemic discrimination and the bill has come due.
and it will continue to be due. And we will pay.
Unless we really do something quite different.
I have been scratching my head at the A.S. so you for the last week.
We've been at this for a hundred years.
my organizations been working on this from its inception.
1931, we were involved with this report about lawlessness and law enforcement.
I was our first report that we got behind.
We opened up our first door fronts after the riots in Watts so that we could bring legal services and lawyers to the communities so they could demand justice from the police departments.
You know, we brought Miranda, you know, the right term in silence. We brought Gideon, the right to a quarter point of attorney if you can't afford one.
We fold Bloomberg on stop and frisk and took him years in the lost in front of our litigation to finally apologize.
We've been at this for a hundred years.
And so the communities that have lived this for 400 years. God.
I've been scratching my head thinking.
It ain't working.
We don't need another pattern and practice law suits.
We are another train program on racial bias, or implicit bias in police departments. We don't need to find out the lawsuit on qualified immunity. We don't need to kind of bring another racist discrimination or gender discrimination lawsuit to integrate the police department.
Yeah, we've done that and we will continue to do that.
For me, where I've come is that we need to defund the budgets of these police departments.
It's the only way we're going to take power back.
And the more I've read over the last couple of weeks about where this country is, the more I'm clear that that is my North Star at the moment.
We will continue to bring the litigation on qualified immunity. We will do the efforts to hold unaccountable law enforcement officials accountable. We will bring patterns and practice lawsuits because the justice department is not doing that. So we will continue doing well that good work.
But the real thing is we're going to go after those budgets.
When you look at the fact that we spent $100 million on policing, more than incarceration, that the city of Minneapolis spent 30% of their budget on policing.
The city of Oakland 41% on policing.
that when you have New York City Police Department, since more money and policing that does on housing and preservation development, community youth services homeless this.
We're going after the money.
And that's that's hard core advocacy.
bills drop and local legislature to cut the funding to police to stop these programs that give the federal military surplus to police to part so they become like little mini armies these own look like police officers these look like standing armies
in the enemy are commuys of color.
So we need to take away their toys.
Leave the cut there budget.
We need to shrink the police infrastructure so that we can get police out of the quotidian lives of people of color and communities of color.
that ubiquitousness of police enforcement and things that the police do not have a role should not have a role to play.
People do not should not lose their lives. Over whether or not a cigarette pack has a proper tax stamp, or whether a $20 bill was forced or not.
That's not worthy of spending our dollars on police.
get them out of that business. Let's focus on the most important and the most serious of crimes and that's it.
That's it.
and the D police are communities.
Shrenkel's budgets.
We're going to reinvest those money in local communities. It will be like water on stone campaigns in local legislatures, local city councils, wild report cards for people who talk at both sides of their mouths and say we believe in police reform and yet they're still going to vote for 30 or 40% for the police.
We're gonna put that right to the public.
I think we just have to stay at it because I think that's the only way we can go get at this in a different way.
because much of what we try to do is just simply not working.
You know, with that, I struggle with how do you find the optimism in this moment because you have to find the optimism.
You have to find the way there. It's still thing that even though in the face of so many setbacks, there's been change.
It's been too little to slow, not enough.
We need to kind of rock it, boost it.
but you can't lose sight of the optimism.
And, you know, I've been thinking about who are the folks who inspire me, Dr. King's father, of course. And the words of Rashad and Patrice Colors and others have inspired me.
But I found inspiration in the words of a kind of a scholar, I really don't like very much. Sam Huntington, kind of often criticizes being a conservative or racist.
But sometimes you provide inspiration even in your enemy's works.
And in one of his books, which I pulled off to shelf I had, is just he writes about how America is a disappointment because it failed to live up to its aspirations.
And he actually started talking about it as Americans a failure because it doesn't live up to its ideals.
But it's not a failure, it's not a bunch of lies.
It's a disappointment.
And in the disappointment also is the fact that there's hope.
I'm paraphrasing it, but I think we have to kind of wrap all of that together and think about the disappointment and the hope and the resolve to do better.
and we need to listen and lean in. And I thank the Ted community. I thank Dr. Tang. I thank Rashad. I thank Phil.
Thank you.
Wow
Thank you to all four of you that was astonishing.
I guess we're bringing everyone back now to have a conversation among us to ask some questions from our community. I hope you're entering those questions.
So I don't know whether we can bring back our guests onto the screen at this point.
I'll walk back.
Let me start with a question to you Dr. King. I was so inspired by what you said.
Your father of course also deeply understood the anger that leads to protests.
I think he said the protests are the language of the unheard
And I'm wondering what you would say to someone right now who is angered beyond measure by what's happened. And also sees this could be the moment. You know, like, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that
and so to actually believe that protests including violent protests actually is the way right now.
What would you say to someone who thought that?
First I just want to make a just a slight correctiony say riots of the language of the Unheard.
Alright.
I promise you, but it's not that that is the point
more powerfully.
protest we must and we must continue to always protest the key to the issues and the awareness before people but you know when a person is angry sometimes it's hard to reach them
I've been on that journey. I was at a stage of my life where I was so angry, I wanted to destroy and I'm the daughter of Martin Luther King, due to grew up in a household of love and nonviolence and forgiveness. And I had to go through that journey. I was surrounded by the right kind of influences for each of them.
because that would have been a sad story.
But I think it's really allowing ourselves to hear the anger and allowing the space for the anger but also trying to help young people re-channel that energy.
And we've got to start ensuring that we connect them to some of the work that has been and now is elevated to another place.
of chains that won't, you're doing the ACL, you're the work that they're doing. Because sometimes there's this disconnection that intensifies the emotion and makes you feel helpless.
But if you can channel that anger, connect it with action that is towards creating the social and economic change, then it begins to build you up. And then you can begin to become more constructive with the anger.
And we have some questions that are coming in from our community, but before we do that, you all shared such powerful, meaningful statements right now. And many of you touched on the fact that this is not the first time that we're experiencing this
So the murder of George Floyd, Amada, our Barry, Rihanna Taylor, that this is one of these are three of many, many instances just like this. And I'd love to hear your all address what has sort of brought us to this boiling point. What has contributed to this moment where we're now experiencing things as Anthony, as you said, that feels so much worse than than other moments.
And that's to anyone who feels comfortable to sort of take that question.
for a shot. I want to hear you.
I want to disay somebody
I think we've always been at that moment.
This moment is different because of the void and leadership.
There's no real moral voice in our country and the person who sits in the office of the presidency is not, you know, leading in the right way.
and has kind of, you know, that kind of has given license to certain things.
And so now it's, you know, he's lit the fires.
Yeah.
You know the thing I like
the thing I'll add here is that, you know, I think a couple of things.
For the last couple of months, we have been both seeing and experiencing all of the ways that this country's decisions of underinvestment of targeting black communities has been killing black people through COVID.
And while we've been in our homes, we have also been watching how the media has blamed us as we have been the essential workers in so many places and trying to ensure that this country keeps going.
We've watched White men with guns show up to capitals with demanding basically black and brown people go back to work.
And then we see this eight minute video with the police officer with his knee on someone's neck after seeing that video of a mod offering and hearing the story of Brianna Taylor and we see him looking in the camera. Basically knowing that America was not going to punish him.
And what I think is that it's just enough this enough that people didn't feel that they had a channel for that outrage and because people had been inside and because people had been experiencing all the ways in which the structures had also been colluding to kill us that what we're seeing is a alignment of all of those things where people are making demands at a much bigger and much bolder than before.
And we recognize that while we don't have leadership at the federal level, we also have to recognize that no political party can say that they have been 100, neither political party can say they've been 100% on the right side of all these issues.
So people are mobilizing. They are fighting back and like never before. And in some ways, people are unwilling to accept answers like just go vote or just participate in the process because we recognize that black people have been voting black people have been part of voting and part of ensuring that.
And so that I think is why this moment feels so much different, combined with for the last seven years since Trevon, we have seen the growth of a new movement of activists and leaders all around the country who are also in a very different place to be able to move the needle on so much of what's possible.
We have a question here from Genesis B and if you can get that up here.
Here in Mississippi the police is synonymous with the clan historically.
How do we purge law enforcement of why it's supremacist? So I guess that's partially to me being the psychologist of bias.
I'll say that just yesterday we had an officer in Denver who posted on social media himself and two other officers saying let's go start a riot. He was fired that day.
I worry about all the officers that the FBI has now for almost half a decade, been warning us, I'm being law enforcement and unions being infiltrated by white supremacists.
and all the officers that have social media accounts, but they're private.
You know, the Vizbel Institute has put some things forward.
We're not talking seriously about the domestic terrorism threat that whites from a sea represent.
So the first thing we got to do is we got to take it seriously.
We have to actually say outlaw and I can't believe that on a day like today, every week like this week, I have to say out loud, white supremacy is alive and well on a driving force of American politics.
This shouldn't be controversial.
I shouldn't be looking to forward to getting hate mail in my inbox for it, but that's the reality.
So the first thing, first part of solving a problem is acknowledging it exists.
The second thing is we need to arm municipalities that's law enforcement, but be even more so communities with the ability to take action when someone violates their values.
Right now, I think about the case in Philadelphia where Charles Ransie, when he was chief there, is Commissioner there, fired six officers, right?
concerns about racial bias and concerns about police brutality and those six officers were back on the same job inside of three months.
We now have a law enforcement system that says you can lose your job in one jurisdiction and get the same job as law enforcement in another jurisdiction.
And without the national registry and the capacity for law enforcement to make different decisions, we're going to have this exact problem, not just the Mississippi, but in Minneapolis and Louisville in New York and LA.
So how much of the problem stems from the fact that police unions have a huge amount of power to protect and sometimes reinstate so called bad Apple offices?
Yeah, so I'm getting this question a lot and police unions are one of the most powerful labor forces in the United States and are unique within the labor movement, right?
So as police unions and teachers unions are the true largest and could not be two different sets of groups of folks.
When I talk to union leadership, that's the leadership that wants to talk to the doctor black and stand right when I talk to union leadership what they say is no one hates a bad officer more than a good officer.
But the union contracts and the negotiations don't look like that true.
But they look like is anybody gets in trouble and the unions only jobs to make sure whatever officer is in trouble gets to maintain their job.
The perverse incentive here is that when people run for union leadership, no one can run saying these people shouldn't be in the union. It's very hard to do that.
But you can run on to say this person didn't protect you enough, right? I'll protect you even more.
the biggest
I'll protect even them. So we have this perverse incentive where union leadership ends up not really representing the values even of the the members of the union members.
but they have massive outsides negotiating power.
So yes, engaging with an appropriate right sizing of labor protections for folks who jobs are difficult, but who should not be protected from the basic values of human rights, human dignity, and public safety.
It's got to be part of the process.
I mean, when unions are negotiating a two year band on keeping of records so that there's no ability even to trace what's happening in the state of California, historically in terms of police misconduct, that's not in the interest of public safety, public legitimacy or our democracy.
Yeah, but the thing I would add to Chris is that I think the labor union piece is a critically important one to think through.
because I think like Phil said, they are a key part of the puzzle that's gonna, we have to solve for.
And, you know, it's frustrating when you look at a place like Minneapolis, that film was better than I, but when Mayor Jacob Fry, the one who's on TV all the time saying, well, you know, many of the right things that you want to like the division to say at times like this. When he banned his police department from attending the warrior training that was being offered, it was the Minneapolis police Federation, local union to defy him and sent their police to the training.
And so we need to really be clear that we need to have the police forces under civilian control.
I know this sounds so elementary. I feel like I'm talking about a Latin American kind of totalitarian context, but if we need to kind of exert civilian control of our police in a way that we have yet not been able to think through and to keep our lives the labor unions of the police.
And there are moments when you can find common grammar.
We brought one of our COVID-related lawsuits to deal with the outbreak of the pandemic in a Maryland jail. We worked really hard. I worked the phones with the head of police unions.
We got one of the local unions to serve as plaintiff in our lawsuit.
because we understood that the incarcerated folks who are being denied access to masks and social distancing and the conditions and lack of testing and lack of PPE, that the people who are also being harmed are going to be the guards as well.
and they're going to be the connectors communicating the disease out into the community.
So if you can find ways of kind of bringing that relationship.
But make them as state when you go after their budgets and you start taking away their kind of their munitions and their seed at the budgeting table, oh, are you going to have a battle on your hats, right?
And we have to think about also as we've shaped about it for police. How do we, we deploy people in the police departments to other meaningful jobs, right?
You can't just throw them out on the street and say, you're on your own, you're homeless, good luck to you. That's not a way to deal with redemption.
So we have to really think about all these pieces in a much more cohesive way.
We have another question here from the audience.
from Paul Rucker, the end of summer of 1919, I think they actually just lost it, was followed by the Tulsa Race Massacre, the Johnson and it really had anti-immigration act of 1924 and also the rise of the KKK.
Is there a possibility that white supremacy will get stronger if we don't seize this opportunity? Rashad, I think this might be something that would be great to hear your perspective on working in a so deeply in activism.
I'm having a little trouble hearing.
Oh, I'm so sorry.
OK
Can you read the question on the screen, Russia?
Oh, oh, I heard that. I heard you.
Yes, yes. I think I might just be my mic is having some issues here.
Is there a possibility that white supremacy will get stronger if we don't seize this opportunity? Yes. Absolutely yes.
You know, well, like to be clear, right? If we don't have the right diagnosis of white supremacy, if we think of white supremacy as just hoods, if we think of white supremacy as just folks who are operating with, you know, in some of these sort of underground networks that have grown, if we're just thinking about white supremacy and white nationalism as people who march with Tiki torches and Charlottesville, Then we will really mistake all the ways in which our systems and structures have white supremacy and bedding and allow for something like a Tulsa race massacre to happen, something like anti immigration to happen. But on a day-to-day basis, allow for the targeting of black communities through predatory practices by banks.
the targeting of black communities through predatory practices like bail.
a whole set of systems that can be produced day and in day out.
We live in a country where the rules are far too often designed in ways that create a caste system that creates a different standard for some over others. And so when I talked about the inflection point, right, of this moment where something could really go forward or something could turn backwards, we are seeing this right now with this current president
and as we look at what could be potential happening with the next election, we have to be very clear that Donald Trump doesn't just operate on his own.
He's enabled by big corporations who benefit from him being an office and so continue to turn a blind eye to all the things that he does.
They may post black lives matter, but they show up to the White House and engage with Donald Trump.
And then we have a whole set of politicians that may sometimes say that he said something that was wrong, but then allow for, but support his platform in other ways.
You know, true co-conspiracy and the effort to dismantle white supremacy and white nationalism is not a thing that people can do on vacation.
It is a 365-day project of us constantly working to dismantle all of the structures that had been put in harm's way.
the final thing I will just add about because someone mentioned about police unions and I want to just add that part of the one of the problems with police unions and many of us have been in this position I think is that I have shown up to the table with police unions and
I remember going to the White House during the last administration and being around a table as we were talking about policing and police reform.
and having members of the fraternal order police leadership say things like all of this talk of racial profiling is new to us. It is one thing for folks to not agree with you on the policy reforms necessary.
It is another thing for people to say that our demands are too aspirational.
It's another thing to be gaslit until the problem doesn't actually exist at all.
And that is what we are dealing with. And so we have to actually change the way that people see these institutions.
politicians who say that they are on the side of justice and reform can no longer take money from police only unions and fraternal order police.
We actually have to create a new standard, a new litmus test of what does it mean to actually be with us.
You can't just sing our songs, use our hashtags, and mark your own marches if you are on the other end supporting the structures that put us in harm's way that literally kill us
This is the opportunity for white allies to actually stand up in new ways.
to be the type of ally shift and the type of work that truly dismantle structures not just provides charity.
I got to add to that. So Paul, thank you for the question. But we're in a moment where people a lot of people are looking at what's happening on the street as if, as if we can have a go, we weren't in the midst of a global pandemic as the greatest news story that the biggest news story going on.
One of the things I'm most worried about and have been worried about since the very beginning when I've been talking to our chiefs about who we work with is that you must be out of the social distancing policing game.
You can't be the ones doing that. And the reason is this. Ram moment where creating scapegoats and enemies and others is incredibly politically advantageous for at least one side.
and there is a deliberate efforts to do exactly that.
And we've seen that black communities are two and three and four times more likely to contract this virus, which feels like the manifestation of racial discrimination because it is.
But very soon, that's gonna look like black people made bad choices and they need to stay away from us.
And when that happens, that's when law enforcement gets used to regulate where black movement can be.
We used to call it sundown towns. I don't know what we're going to call it when it's around
But it's coming.
I'm already seeing that on communities like next door and on Facebook groups.
people who don't think of themselves as white supremacists, but just what the disease, the disease, has a black and brown face.
So we're not only dealing with a moment of generational tension between black communities and law enforcement, we're dealing with a moment when people are looking for scapegoats and black people's vulnerability has always been our greatest casting note for being cast as scapegoats.
So for for for cultural worry about this, this is not inevitably a moment for change and reform and enlightenment and America's best values because historically these have been precisely the moment when regression back to white supremacy has reign supreme.
So let's not just look at everybody's signal waves.
I don't want to just see black black and white cops on their knees. I want to see the policies.
I want to see the things that will prevent this kind of thing from moving to the next stage.
We're sure I want to respect that. I knew you've got a hard stop at one.
And so I just want to thank you for your participation in this.
if you've got a couple of final words you want to share that would be great and then if it's okay for the other three I just I think there's just a couple of other questions I'd love to to put and continue this conversation for just a moment longer if possible
Rashad, any closing words?
The thing I want to say is that now is the time for action.
And I want to invite people in to join us at Color of Change to make justice real.
and in so many ways you can visit us at Color of Change. You can take action
five, 10, 15 years from now. We will be dealing with the impacts of what we did or didn't do in this moment.
how we stood up and how hard we were willing to fight.
And as the other speakers have said, now is not the time for reform around the edges. Now is time for dismantling the policies and practices that have hold us back and championing solutions and new rules that will move us forward.
So we hope that you will do something, whether it's with us, or whether it's with local organizations in your community, or other groups around the country.
But this is an opportunity to make change and I believe that we can make justice real if we find the passion and the energy to work together to achieve it.
So thank you all for having me and I hope that we have an opportunity to build not just online but offline in the months to come.
Thanks so much.
I'm just gonna ask this last question of you.
this one's from David Fenton.
How can the movement unite around a clear simple platform of policies to enshrine in legislation?
like making all complaints against cops, public, banning or choke calls, ensuring independent review boards, etc. And that seems like a great place for you to chime in, Dr. King, if you have some bots on there.
I think that was to go to you dad.
Okay.
You know, this is my sound simplistic, but it's a Nike thing. I think we have to just do it. We have to see how work is interconnected.
I think there's been efforts towards people working in that vein that we have to intensify that.
and enjoying it. One of the things that my father said and I know people sometimes get tired of hearing me say my father said, but I just think I wish should I say we had really listened to him because we wouldn't be on this platform right now having this kind of conversation.
But he left something with a sort of a blueprint, where do we go from here, chaos, the community, his book. And he said going forward, the nettle some task is to organize our strength into compelling power.
That is so key because oftentimes we organize merely around passion.
But people have certain areas of strength and talent and giftedness and we've got to figure out how to build our core elections based on these strengths.
you know, people do different things well.
And so in order to unite in an effective way that they might not elude the demand that we're making, I think that's what's going to happen.
people have to do their own personal assessment within their organization that I call it a swatinalysis.
And then that's why the analysis has to happen across organizations so that we can make sure that we're moving in the United Manor of the strengths that each organization brings so that we can maximize the impact and effectiveness to do things like this in terms of getting the legislation in place that is needed in this hour.
Thanks so much.
just a quick closing words from you Anthony and then from youself.
Anthony.
I would just say that, what gives me hope are the young folk.
You have to believe that among this group, this group of youngins, seeing what they're seeing, living with this president, with these instincts, seeing the continued indifference that mainstream communities have given to issues of racial justice or economic justice. You gotta believe that what comes out of this kind of very hot fire is something even more powerful and strong than we've ever seen before.
That's what gets me through the hard days that we're now experiencing. It's thinking there is another doctor, King, among the young and doctor, King.
And I have to believe that what they're seeing and what they're witnessing and their righteous indignation and their frustration and their anger is going to be miraculously a beautiful blossoming of the new opportunity of a new change.
This generation will take us there. I have to believe that
And my generations failed them miserably.
So I'm just looking forward to the new ones.
Thank you.
Thank you, I bring
So it's it really has been a privilege to be on with you all
to David's question. Let me say that a number of civil rights organizations, I believe the ACLU among them, CBE, a number of a civil police equity, and hundreds more have signed on to principles for legislation that would include eight pillars.
It's been led by the Leadership Conference for Civil and Human Rights.
and includes a federal ban on chokeholds. It includes a national registry for officers who have engaged in this conduct.
I also think that it's important at this moment to get we've got law enforcement chiefs of major cities willing to say if we emerge from this moment and our profession hasn't changed then we have failed again.
So it's a critical time to get behind. I would directly to the LCCHR's website, um, um, for the eight pillars because I won't remember the mall right now, um, and to start calling your local law enforcement say, yes, own that. You should be signing on. They should be going public with letters that do all of that.
But I'll also say this.
for a path forward in the principles of, I'll end where we, where I started, which is that this is bigger than policing.
These are the unpaid debts owed to black communities for stolen labor, owned to out-to-native communities for stolen land, for stolen culture for years taken away and from lives lost in it.
This is bigger than policing.
If we don't understand the size of it, then there's no solution that's really truly proportional to the moment.
But in this moment when we're seeing trillions of dollars and bailouts, mostly for corporations, it is absolutely a time when we can do things that normally people could pretend that's too much. It's too big. We can't.
We have literally all the money in the world that can be spent and directed towards making us the society we pretend to be before moments like this happen.
So the thing that gives me hope is that the lies have to be obvious now.
The lies have to be that was a reasonable use of force.
The lie has to be, we don't have the money.
A lie has to be that's too hard, it's too big of a challenge.
This stuff feels impossible every day except today because the alternative is we lose everything.
Everything is at stake. Our democracy is at stake. The people we choose to be, we claim to be that's at stake.
And in the face of that, I think we can do impossible things.
I think we can be mighty.
So my hope for all of us is first that we wake up tomorrow with more peace in the evening than war and that we hold on to what's possible from this moment as the same time that we hold on to the size of the task in front of us.
I don't want to come out with half measures out of this.
I don't want to come out with radicalized youth and indifferent ages.
I don't know what the conch has
that radicalize use and in different people who are always like me.
I want to come out with a unified country that understands that the costs that we owe are big and our pockets are deep enough to match it.
Wow.
Thank you to each of you for extraordinary eloquence.
really so powerful.
This conversation obviously continues. I know that as many people listening, you'll have other questions. This, I think, from 10 to 20 years, just the start of the conversation.
The extent that our job is to amplify voices that matter, we can be proud of to be amplifying further your extraordinary voices.
So thank you for being part of this today.
Thank you.
I arrived in the US from Kingston, Jamaica in the summer of 16.
Family of six crammed into a small two bedroom apartment in a three story walk up in Brooklyn.
The block had several children, some spoke Spanish, some spoke English.
Initially I was no allowed to play with them because as my parents said, them too rumbongious. So I could only watch them from my window.
Roll a skating was one of their favorite activities.
They love hitching a ride at the back of the city bus, letting go of the rear bumper as the bus arrived at the bottom of the block in front of my building.
One day there was a new girl with them.
I heard the usual squeals of laughter in this first with Miramira.
Miramira Spanish for look look. The group grabbed onto the back of the bus at the top of the block and as they rolled down laughing and screaming Miramira Miramira the bus abruptly stopped.
The experience writers adjusted in quickly let go. But the new girl, lurched back and fell onto the pavement.
She didn't move.
and those outside ran to help her.
The Boastriver came out to see what had happened and called for an ambulance.
There was blood coming from our head.
She didn't open her eyes.
We waited for the ambulance and waited. And everyone said, where is the ambulance?
where is the ambulance? The police finally arrived.
And all the black America man said, eight no ambulance coming. He said it again, loudly to the cops.
You know eight no ambulance coming.
I was 10 years old at the time.
I knew this wasn't right.
I knew there was something more we could do.
The something I could do as we come a doctor.
I became an internist and committed my career for caring for those we often call the undiserved, vulnerable. Like those neighbors that had when I first immigrated to America.
During my early training years in Harlem and the eighties, I saw shocking increase in young men with HIV.
Then when I am much for Miami, I notice HIV included women and children. Primarily poor black and brown people.
Within a few years, an infection seen in a select population became a worldwide epidemic.
Again, I got the urge to do something.
Fortunately, with the help of activists and advocates and educators and physicians like me who treat the disease, we found a way forward.
There was a massive education effort to reduce HIV transmission and provide legal protection for those with the disease.
There was a political will to make sure that as many patients as possible worldwide, regardless of ability to pay, could get access to medication.
within a couple of decades, there are new treatments that transform this life-threading infection to a chronic disease like diabetes.
Now there's a vaccine on the horizon.
Over the last five to seven years, I've noticed a different epidemic among the patients in Florida. And it looks something like this.
Miss Anime, a retired clerical worker living on a fixed income in Opalaka walked in for medication refills.
She had common chronic conditions of high blood pressure, diabetes, heart disease, and asthma with overlapping chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, COPD.
Miss Anime was one of my more adherent patients, so I was surprised she needed refills of her breathing medicines earlier than usual.
Towards the end of the visit, she handed me a Florida Power and Light Form and asked me to sign it.
She was behind on her life bill.
This formal load physician's seductimate serious medical conditions require an equipment that would be impacted if the patient's electricity was disconnected.
But Miss Anna May I said, you know, you're a cinematical device of subrething.
I don't think you qualify. Further questioning revealed she had been using her air conditioner day and night because of the heat so she could breathe.
Needing to buy more as many healers left her. Little money. She couldn't pay all the bills so it piled up.
I filled out the form, but no one she might be denied. I also sent her to the social worker.
Then there was Jorge, such a sweet, kind man, who often gifted our clinic with some of the fruits he sold on the streets of Miami.
He had signs of worsening kidney function whenever he worked days on end on those hot streets due to dehydration, just not enough blood getting to the kidneys.
His kidneys work much better whenever he took some days off.
but we know other support what could he do.
As he says, Rain or Shine cold or heat, I have to work. But the most damn in case of all, maybe Miss Sandra Fade Twigs a Fort Lauderdale with COPD.
She was arrested after fighting with her daughter over a fan.
on her release from jail, she returned to her apartment, cough nonstop, and died three days later.
Here's what else I noticed. The data showed allergy seasons a start in weeks earlier. Nighttime temperatures are rising. Trees are growing faster. Amosquito's caron dangerous diseases like Zika and Dengue are showing up in areas they didn't exist before.
I also see signs of impending climate gentrification.
That's when richer people move into poorer neighborhoods that are at higher elevation and less subject to flood damage from climate change.
Like in my patient, my damn Marie, who came in stress to anxious because she was evicted from her apartment and my miss little Haiti. To make room for a luxury apartment complex, whose developers understood that little Haiti would not flood because it's 10 feet above sea level.
and undeniable, clear and consistent warming trend is underway.
Health and emergency even bigger than HIV aid seems to be in the works and it was my annoying complications that were dropping clues of what it would look like.
This new epidemic is climate change and it has a variety of health effects.
climate change impacts us in four major ways.
directly through heat, extreme weather and pollution. Through the spread of disease, through disruption of our food and water supply and through disruption of our emotional well-being.
In medicine, we've used new monics to aid our memory. And this new monic heat wave shows the eight significant health effects of climate change.
H. Heat illnesses.
E, Exacubation of Heart and Long Disease.
A, asthma worsening.
T, traumatic injuries, especially during extreme weather events.
W. Water and Foodborne illnesses.
A, allergies were soothing.
V, vector-borne disease is spreading like Zika, Dengue and Lyme.
and E emotional stress is increasing.
poor, vulnerable people are already feeling the effects of climate change.
They are the proverbial canary in a coal mine.
Truly, their experiences are like oracles or prophecies.
the guiding light for us to pay attention that we are doing something to our world first that's hurting them first.
but in a matter of time, we are next.
If we act together, doctors, patients and other health professionals, we will find solutions.
We have done this with the HIV crisis.
There was thanks to the activism of patients with HIV that demanded medications and better research and the collaboration of doctors and scientists that we were able to control the epidemic.
And then it was thanks to international health agencies, NGOs, politicians, and pharmaceutical companies that HIV medications became available in low-income countries.
There is no reason we can't also apply this model of collaboration to address the health effects of climate change before it's too late.
climate changes here.
Sorry they damaging the health and homes of poor people.
Like my patient, Jorge, most of us will have to work. Whether rain or shine, cool or heat.
But together these patients and their doctors hand in hand with some basic tools can do so much to make this climate transition less brutal for all of us.
These patients inspired me to found the clinician's organizations to fight climate change.
We focus on understanding the health effects of climate change, learning to advocate for patients with climate-related illnesses, and encouraging real-world solutions.
A recent Gallup study show a three of the most respected professions and nurses doctors and pharmacists.
So, respected members of society, we have amplified voices to influence climate change, policy and politics.
There is so much we can do.
As clinicians, our many patient contacts are low as to see things before others.
and this puts us an ideal position to be on the front lines of change.
We can teach climate related illnesses in our health professional schools.
We can collect data on our patient's climate-related conditions by making sure they're billing codes to identify them.
We can do climate-related health research.
We can teach how to have green practices and homes.
We can advocate for a patient energy needs.
We can help them get safe for homes.
We can help them get necessary equipment in those homes when conditions were soon.
We can testify in front of lawmakers as to the findings and we can medically treat our patients climate related illnesses.
Most importantly, we can help prepare our patients mentally and physically for the health challenges they will face using a model of medicine that incorporates economic and social justice.
This would mean, misunderfaith, twigs with COPD who died after being released from jail after a fight with her daughter over a fan would have known that the heat in her apartment made her a sick an angry and seek a safer place to go for cooling.
Even better, her apartment would never have been so hot.
from the poor have learned their lives are not only vulnerable, but are stories of resilience, innovation, and survival.
Like that wise old man who loudly spoke truth to the cop that summer night, eight no ambulance coming and compelled him to deliver that little girl to the hospital instead.
You know what?
Listen up.
If there's going to be a medical response to climate change, it is not going to be just waiting for an ambulance.
It is going to happen because we the clinicians take the first step.
We make so much noise that the issue cannot be ignored or misunderstood.
It is going to start with the stories our patients tell and the stories we tell on their behalf.
We're going to do what is right for our patients like we've always done. But also what is right for environment for ourselves and for all the people on this planet, all of them.
Thank you.
Consider this unfortunately familiar scenario.
Several months ago, a highly infectious sometimes deadly respiratory virus, infected humans for the first time.
Then proliferated faster than public health measures could contain it.
Now the World Health Organization has declared a pandemic, meaning that it's spreading worldwide.
The death toll is starting to rise and everyone is asking the same question. When will the pandemic end?
will likely declare the pandemic over once the infection is mostly contained and rates of transmission drop significantly throughout the world.
But exactly when that happens depends on what global governments choose to do next.
They have three main options. Re-through it, delay and vaccinate or coordinate and crush.
One is widely considered best, and it may not be the one you think.
In the first, governments and communities do nothing to halt the spread, and instead allow people to be exposed as quickly as possible.
Without time to study the virus, doctors know little about how to save their patients and hospitals reach peak capacity almost immediate.
Somewhere in the range of millions to hundreds of millions of people die, either from the virus or the collapse of healthcare systems.
Soon, the majority of people have been infected and either perished or survived by building up their immune responses.
Around this point, herd immunity kicks in, whether virus can no longer find new hosts.
So the pandemic fizzles out a short time after it began.
But there's another way to create herd immunity without such a high cost of life.
Let's reset the clock to the moment the WHO declared the pandemic.
This time, governments and communities around the world slow the spread of the virus to give research facilities time to produce a vaccine.
They buy this crucial time through tactics that may include widespread testing to identify carriers, quarantining the infected and people they've interacted with, and physical distancing.
Even with these measures in place, the virus slowly spreads, causing up to hundreds of thousands of deaths.
Some cities get the outbreak under control and go back to business as usual, only to have a resurgence and return to physical distancing when in new case passes through.
Within the next several years, one or possibly several vaccines become widely and hopefully freely available thanks to a worldwide
effort. Once 48 and 90% of the population has received it, the precise amount varying based on the virus, herd immunity kicks in, and the pandemic fiddles out.
Let's rewind the clock one more time to consider the final strategy. Coordinate and crush.
The idea here is to simultaneously starve the virus, everywhere. Through a combination of quarantine, social distancing and restricting travel.
The critical factor is to synchronize responses.
In a typical pandemic, when one country is peaking, another may be getting its first cases.
Instead of every leader responding to what's happening in their jurisdiction, here everyone must treat the world as the giant interconnected system it is.
If coordinated properly, this could end a pandemic in just a few months with low loss of life.
But unless the virus is completely eradicated, which is highly unlikely, there will be risks of it escalating to pandemic levels once again.
And factors like animals carrying and transmitting the virus might undermine our best efforts altogether.
So which strategy is best for this deadly infectious respiratory virus?
Racing through it is a quick fix, but would be a global catastrophe, and may not work at all if people can be re-infected.
Crushing the virus through coordination alone is also enticing for its speed, but only reliable with true and daily impossible global cooperation.
That's why vaccination, assisted by as much global coordination as possible, is generally considered to be the winner. It's the slow, steady, and proven option in the race.
Even if the pandemic officially ends before of vaccine is ready, the virus may reappear seasonally, so vaccines will continue to protect people.
and although it may take years to create, disruptions to most people's lives won't necessarily last the full duration.
Breakthroughs, Intriguent and Prevention of Symptoms can make viruses much less dangerous, and therefore require less extreme containment measures.
Take heart, the pandemic will end.
Its legacy will be long last and but not all bad. The breakthroughs, social services and systems we develop can be used to the betterment of everyone.
And if we take inspiration from the successes and lessons from the failures, we can keep the next potential pandemic so contained that our children's children won't even know its name.
I grew up in a family where my father managed all the money.
But for some reason when I was eight or nine years old, he started showing me things about money.
We would sit at the kitchen table and he'd show me all the bank books.
Now that was back in the day before the internet when we used to have little books that used to keep our information in.
And he would show me how he saved these accounts and he paid bills out of these.
And every time he would show me something about money, he would end by saying, and don't you tell your mother. Now, to this day, I really don't know why he said that. But what I do know is to that eight-year-old girl sitting at the kitchen table, it meant, don't say a word. Years later, when I got my first job, my father said, you'll bring me your check and I'll put it in the bank for you. But because of what he had taught me years before, I said, I'd like my bank book and to my surprise, it gave it to me.
Right then, it's 16 years old. I began managing my own money.
I went on to college and then to start my new career as a CPA. But now with student loans, getting an apartment and a new job, I began the roller coaster ride of accumulating debt, paying it off and accumulating more.
Many years later after getting married, I went through an unexpected divorce. And I was left with a house I couldn't afford and bills I couldn't pay.
You might be wondering, how does that happen to someone that's educated and skilled at managing people's money? I had herverted back to what I learned growing up, that one person managed all the money.
I had handed over my financial power and I had become financially dependent.
Financial dependency is when someone is dependent on a person, a job, or situation for money, and they feel trapped.
People fall into two categories, dependent with choice and dependent without a choice.
Someone is dependent with choice when they hand over their financial power and their participation.
It can happen in personal or business relationships when one person doesn't want to be involved with the money so they hand over the responsibility to a spouse, a partner, or a professional, like an accountant or a manager.
This was my situation.
I spent all day long managing other people's money so I was relieved that my husband was interested and good at managing ours.
I was free!
For the first time since that first job at 16 years old, I didn't have to be responsible for managing my money.
But what I failed to realize was without like freedom was really dependency.
My mistake is that I didn't stay involved or understand what was going on with our money.
You may have experienced this yourself, or you may have heard stories of celebrities or professional athletes that have relied on family, friends, and others to manage their money and they are left, broke, bankrupt and betrayed because they made the choice to hand over their financial power.
Someone that's dependent without a choice feels trapped because of their financial situation.
They can be in a job or career where they're unhappy or being harassed, but they can't afford to leave.
or someone that had to move in with family and friends because they had an illness or gone through divorce or experienced a tragedy and now they're financially dependent on others.
and how many of us know someone that has an elderly parent or a relative that can no longer take care of themselves and their left to rely on others sometimes handing over their homes, their money, and other assets.
Another type of dependency without a choice is financial abuse.
Financial abuse is a pattern of abusive behavior used to control and intimidate a partner.
Victims are interrelationship and the other person has power over them because they don't have access to money, information, or the resources, and support they need to leave.
The All-State Foundation has a program called the Purple Purse that helps victims of domestic violence through financial empowerment.
They report that 99% in 99 out of 100 domestic violence cases by natural abuse helps keep victims trapped in their relationship.
The purple purse has coined financial abuse the invisible weapon. Because physical abuse leaves bruises and scars, the financial abuse doesn't.
Financial abuse and financial dependency leave emotional scars that you can't see.
They include hopelessness, guilt, shame, depression, lack of confidence and self-esteem.
Financial dependency is also invisible because no one's talking about it.
Bye.
because no one wants to show their emotional scars. And because we're taught in our homes, our jobs in our community, not to talk about money.
So many people that I talked to about this issue, they can relate and they have a story, but they're not telling anyone their story.
When I was toward the kitchen table, don't you tell? I never told anyone.
It's even hard for me right now to break that rule that I learned so long ago.
So what can I do?
What can you do?
What can we all do to disarm this invisible weapon?
We can solve three problems.
The first problem is lack of awareness because knowing about money and having money aren't always the solution.
In my situation, I was educated and experienced in managing money. But that didn't stop me from becoming financially dependent.
Why?
because of the beliefs and experiences I had growing up. One person manages all the money.
After my divorce, I had to rebuild my life financially and emotionally.
So I took every self-development course and I read every self-help book I could find.
And that's when I began to understand the dynamics of the family that I live grew up in and how they played a role in me handing over my financial power.
When you become aware of your inner bruises and scars, you can begin to break free from financial dependency.
The next problem is lack of information about financial literacy.
financial literacy is having the skills and the knowledge to make informed decisions about your money.
It includes topics like savings and investing budgeting and debt.
In 2018, only 17 states required financial literacy in high school curriculums.
This corresponds with recent studies that show that 66% of Americans are financially illiterate.
If you are in a financial dependency situation, start by looking and going through your finances, making decisions, participate in making decisions about your money.
If you are in a financial abuse situation, get access to your information.
look for financial documents like bank, credit card statements, so security information and account for headphones.
The last problem is lack of giving and getting support.
Many people don't know that there are free resources online and in your local community to help you learn and establish healthy money habits.
There are also free resources if you are a victim of financial abuse, like the Purple Purse.
Giving support includes listening to others that are financially dependent without judgment or criticism.
It also involves sharing your story because when you share your story, you empower others and you give them the permission to rewrite their own.
It's my hope that by sharing my story, more people will learn about financial dependency, we'll share their own stories, and we'll connect with others to shed a light on this hidden issue so that we can all have financial freedom.
