Why grow homes?
because we can.
Right now, America is in a unremitting state of trauma.
And there's a cause for that.
We've got Mick Peeple, Mick Cars, Mick Houses, right?
as an architect, I have to confront something like this.
So what's the technology that will allow us to make ginormous houses?
Well, it's been around for 2,500 years.
It's called pleaching or grafting trees together or grafting an osculate matter into one contiguous, fast-cular system.
And we do something different than what we did in the past. We add a kind of a modicum of intelligence to that.
We use CNC to make scaffolding to train semi-epicitic matter plants into a specific geometry that makes a home that we call a fab tree hat.
It fits into the environment.
It is the environment.
It is the landscape, right?
and you can have a hundred million of these homes and it's great because they suck carbon.
they're perfect.
You can have 100 million families or take things out of the suburbs because these are homes that are a part of the environment.
Imagine pre-growing a village, right? Takes about seven to ten years and everything is green.
So not only do we do the veggie house, we also do the in vitro meat habitat, or homes that we're doing research on now in Brooklyn, where as an architecture office, we're the first of its kind to put in a molecular cell biology lab and start experimenting with regenerative medicine and tissue engineering and start thinking about what the future would be if architecture and biology became one.
So we've been doing this for a couple of years and that's our lab.
And what we do is we grow extra cellular matrix from pigs.
We use a modified inkjet printer and we print geometry.
The pretty geometry that we can make industrial design objects, like shoes, other belts, handbags, etc. Where no sentient creature is harmed.
It's victimless.
It's meat from a test tube.
So our theory is that eventually we should be doing this with homes.
So here is a typical stud wall in architectural construction, and this is a section of our proposal for a meat house where you can see we use fatty cells, his insulation, silica for dealing with wind loads, and spinked her muscles for the doors and windows.
And we know it's incredibly ugly.
It could have been an English tutor or Spanish colonial, but we kind of chose this shape.
And there it is, kind of, grown, at least one particular section of it.
We had a big show in Prague and we decided to put it in front of the cathedral so religion can confront the house of me.
That's why we grow high.
Thanks very much.
When I was 10 years old, a cousin of mine took me on a tour of his medical school.
And as a special treat, he took me to the pathology lab and took a real human brain out of the jar and placed it in my hands.
And there it was the seat of human consciousness, the powerhouse of the human body sitting in my hands.
And that day I knew that when I grew up, I was going to become a brain doctor scientist, something or the other.
Years later when I finally grew up, my dream came true.
Yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld yw'r gweld
It is estimated that one in six children, that's one in six children suffer from some developmental disorder.
This is a disorder that retards mental development in the child and causes permanent mental impairments.
which means that each and every one of you here today knows at least one child that is suffering from a developmental disorder.
But here's what really perplexed me.
Despite the fact that each and every one of these disorders originates in the brain, most of these disorders are diagnosed solely on the basis of observable behavior.
But diagnosing a brain disorder without actually looking at the brain is analogous to treating a patient with a heart problem based on their physical symptoms without even doing any CG or a chest X-ray to look at the heart.
It seemed so intuitive to me.
To diagnose and treat a brain disorder accurately, it would be necessary to look at the brain directly.
Looking at behavioral loan can miss a vital piece of the puzzle and provide an incomplete or even a misleading picture of the child's problems.
Yet despite all the advances in medical technology, the diagnosis of brain disorders in one in six children still remained so limited.
And then I came across a team at Harvard University that had taken one such advanced medical technology and finally applied it instead of in-brained research towards diagnosing brain disorders in children.
Their groundbreaking technology records the EEG or the electrical activity of the brain in real time, allowing us to watch the brain as it performs various functions and then detect even the slightest abnormality in any of these functions, vision, attention, language, or addition.
a program called Brain Electrical Activity Mapping then triangulates the source of that abnormality in the brain.
yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn yn y
And so I became the head of neurophysiology for the clinical arm of this team. And we'll finally able to use this technology towards actually helping children with brain disorders.
And I'm happy to say that I'm now in the process of setting up this technology here in India.
I like to tell you about one such child whose story was also covered by ABC News.
Seven-year-old Justin Senegar came to our clinic with his diagnosis of very severe autism.
Like many autistic children, his mind was locked inside his body.
There were moments when he would actually space out for seconds at a time.
And the doctors told his parents he was never going to be able to communicate or interact socially and he would probably never have too much language.
When we use this groundbreaking EEG technology to actually look at Justin's brain, the results were startling.
It turned out that Justin's almost certainly not autistic.
He was suffering from a brain seizures that were impossible to see with the naked eye, but that were actually causing symptoms that mimicked those of autism.
After Justin was given anti-seize your medication, the change in him was amazing.
Within a period of 60 days, his vocabulary went from two to three words to 300 words.
and his communication and social interaction were improved so dramatically that he was enrolled into a regular school and even became a karate superchamp.
Research shows that 50% of children, almost 50% of children diagnosed with autism, are actually suffering from hidden brain seizures.
These are the faces of the children that I have tested with stories just like Justin.
All these children came to our clinic with a diagnosis of autism, attention deficit disorder, mental retardation, language problems,
Instead, our EEG scans revealed very specific problems hidden within their brains that couldn't possibly have been detected by their behavioral assessments.
So these EEG scans enabled us to provide these children with a much more accurate neurological diagnosis and much more targeted treatment.
For too long now, children with developmental disorders have suffered from misdiagnosis while their real problems have gone undetected and left to worsen.
and for too long these children and their parents have suffered undue frustration and desperation.
But we are now in a new era of neuroscience. One in which we can finally look directly at brain function in real time with no risks and no side effects, non-invasively, and find the true source of so many disabilities in children.
Mae'n yw'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwrachio'n fwr
One more mind will be unlocked.
and one more child who has been misdiagnosed or even undiagnosed by the system will finally realize his or her true potential while there's still time for his or her brain to recover.
and all this by simply watching the child.
Thank you.
Jaya Jaya Hey, oh, he shasuramarthini Ramya Kaparthini Shayla Suteh. This is the note to the mother goddess that most of us in India learn in their children.
I learned it when I was four. At my mother's knee.
that here she introduced me to dance and thus began my just with classical dance.
Since then, it's been four decades now. I've trained with the best in the field, performed across the globe. Thought, young and older like, created, collaborated, choreographed, and moved a rich tapestry of artistry achievement and awards.
The crowning glory was in 2007 when I received this country's fourth highest civilian award, the Padmashri, for my contribution to art.
I heard the word carcinoma. Yes, breast cancer.
As I sat numstruck in my doctor's office, I heard other words, cancer, stage, grade. Until then, cancer was the zodiac sign of my friend. Stage was what I performed on and grades with what I got in school.
That day I realized I had an unwell come uninvited new life partner.
As a dancer, I know the nine rasas or the nabara sas, anger, valla, disgust, humour and fear.
I thought I knew what fear was.
that day I learned what fear was.
overcome with the enormity of its all and the complete feeling of loss of control, I shed copious tears and asked my dear husband James.
Hast du das gesit?
Is this the end of the road?
Is this the end of my dance? And he, the positive soul that he is, said, no, this is just a hiatus, a hiatus during the treatment and you'll get back to doing what you do best. I realized then that I, who thought I had complete control of my life, had control of only three things. My thought, my mind, the images that these thoughts created and the action that derived from it.
So here there was a value in the what takes of emotions and depression and what have you with the enormity of the situation. Wanting to go to a place of healing, health and happiness.
I wanted to go from where I was, to where I wanted to be, for which I needed something.
I needed something that will pull me out of all this.
So I dried my tears and I declared to the world at large.
I said, cancels only one page in my life and I will not allow this page to impact the rest of my life. I also declared to the world that I would write it out and I would not allow cancer to write me.
But to go from where I was to where I wanted to be, I needed something.
I needed an anchor, an image, a peg to peg this process on so that I could go from there.
And I found that in my dance. My dance, my strength, my energy, my passion, my very life-bred.
But it wasn't easy.
Believe me, it definitely wasn't easy.
How do you keep cheer when you go from beautiful to bald in three days?
How do you not despair when the body ravished by chemotherapy, climbing a mere flight of stairs was sheer torture, that too to someone like me who could dance for three hours?
How do you not get overwhelmed by the despair and the misery of it all?
All I wanted to do was curl up and weep.
I kept telling myself, fear and tears at options I did not have.
So I would drag myself into my dance studio, body, mind and spirit, every day into my dance studio, and learn everything I learned when I was four all over again. Re-work, relearn, regrouped.
It was excruciatingly painful, but I did it.
Defik kallt.
I focused on my mood-dress, on the imagery of my dance, on the poetry and the metaphor and the philosophy of the dance itself.
and slowly, her move out of that miserable state of mind.
But I needed something else.
I needed something to go that extra mile and I found it in that metaphor, which I had learned from my mother when I was born.
تمتفه أفماه شاسر مرتني أفضرga
The mother God is the fearless one created by the pamp ten of Hindu gods.
Durga, resplendent with deck beautiful, her 18 arms ready for warfare. As she rode, a stride her lion into the battlefield to destroy Maheshah.
Durga, the epitome of creative feminine energy or shock.
Дурга, до фиолетов.
I made that image of Durga and her every attribute of every nuance my very own.
powered by the symbology of a myth and the passion of my training I brought laser sharp focus into my dance. Laser sharp focus to such an extent that I danced a few weeks after surgery.
I danced through chemo and radiation cycles, much to the dismay of my oncologist.
I dance between Kim and Radiation Cycles and badgered him to fit it to my performing dance schedule.
What I had done is I had tuned out of cancer and tuned into my dance.
Yes, cancer has just been one page in my life.
My story is a story of overcoming setbacks, obstacles and challenges that life throws at you.
My story is a power of thought.
My story is the power of choice.
It's a power of focus.
is the power of bringing ourselves to the attention of something that so animates you, so moves you, that something even like cancer becomes insignificant.
My story is a power of a metaphor, a
image.
Mine was that of Durga. Durga are the fearless one.
She was also called him Hanna Nidvan, who wrote the line.
As I ride out, as I ride my own inner strength, my own inner resilience, I am with what medication can provide and continue treatment. As I ride out into the battlefield of cancer, asking my rogue cells to behave, I want to be known as a not-accancer survival, but as a cancer conqueror.
I would be willing to bet that I'm the dumbest guy in the room because I couldn't get through school. I started a little school.
But what I knew at a very early age was that I loved money and I loved business and I loved this entrepreneurial thing.
I was raised to be an entrepreneur.
what I've been really passionate about ever since and I've never spoken about this ever until now. So this is the first time I knew it was ever heard it except my wife three days ago.
She said, what are you talking about? And I told her, is that I think we miss an opportunity to find these kids who have the entrepreneurial traits and to groom them or show them that being an entrepreneur is actually a cool thing.
It's not something that is a bad thing and is vilified, which is what happens in a lot of society.
Kids when we grow up have dreams and we have passions and we have visions and somehow we get those things crushed.
and we get told that we need to study harder or be more focused or get a tutor.
My parents got me a tutor in French, and I still suck in French.
Two years ago, I was the highest rated lecturer at MIT's entrepreneurial master's program.
and it was a speaking event in front of groups of entrepreneurs from around the world.
When I was in grade two, I want a citywide speaking competition. But nobody had ever said, hey, this kid's a good speaker.
He can't focus, but he loves walking around and getting people energized. No one said, get him a coach in speaking. They say, get me a tutor in what I suck out.
So as kids show these traits and we need to start looking for them, I think we should be raising kids to be entrepreneurs instead of lawyers.
And unfortunately, the school system is grooming this world to say, hey, let's be a lawyer or let's be a doctor. And we're missing that opportunity because no one ever says, hey, being entrepreneur entrepreneurs are people because we a lot of them in this room who have these ideas and these passions or see these needs in the world and we decide to stand up and do it.
and we put everything on the line to make that stuff happen.
and we have the ability to get those groups of people around us and want to kind of build that dream with us.
And I think if we could get kids to embrace the idea at a young age of being entrepreneurial, we could change everything in the world that's a problem today.
Every problem that's out there somebody has the idea for.
as a young kid, nobody can say it can't happen because you're too dumb to realize that you couldn't figure it out.
I think we have an obligation as parents and a society to start teaching our kids to fish instead of giving them the fish. They'll terrible if you give them a man a fish, you feed them for a day.
teacher men and fish you feed them for lifetime. If we can teach our kids to become entrepreneurial, the ones that show those traits to be, like we teach the ones who have science, gifts to go on in science. What about if we saw the ones who had entrepreneurial traits and taught them to be entrepreneurs?
We could actually have all these kids spreading businesses instead of waiting for government handouts.
What we do is we sit and we teach our kids all the things they shouldn't do. Don't hit, don't bite, don't swim.
Right now, we teach our kids to go after really good jobs. You know, the school system teaches them to go after things like being a doctor and being a lawyer and being an accountant and a dentist and a teacher and a pilot.
And the media says that it's really cool if we could vote and be a model or a singer or a sports hero like Luongo, Crosby.
Our MBA programs do not teach kids to be entrepreneurs.
The reason that I avoided NBA program other than the fact that I couldn't get into any, because I had a 61% average out of high school and then 61% average at the only school in Canada that accepted me Carlton. But our MBA programs don't teach kids to be entrepreneurs
they teach them to go work in corporations.
who's starting these companies.
It's these random few people.
Even in popular literature, the only book I've ever found, and this should be on all of your reading lists, the only book I've ever found that makes the entrepreneurial of the hero is Atlas shrugged. Everything else in the world tends to look at entrepreneurs and say that we're bad people.
I look at even my family.
both of my grandfather's ranch Paner's, my dad was an entrepreneur.
my brother and sister and I all three of us own companies as well.
we all decide to start these things because it's really the only place we fit.
We didn't fit in the normal work. We couldn't work for somebody else because we're too stubborn and we have all these other traits.
The kids could be entrepreneurs as well.
And a big part of a couple organizations globally called the Entrepreneurs Organization and the Young President's Organization.
came back from speaking in Barcelona at the YPO Global Conference.
and everyone that I met over there who was an entrepreneur, struggled with school.
I have 18 of the 19 signs of attention deficit disorder diagnosed.
So this thing right here is freaking me out.
It's probably why I'm a little bit panicked right now, it's other than all the caffeine that I've had in the sugar pan.
but this is like really creepy for an entrepreneur.
attention deficit disorder bipolar disorder
Do you know that bipolar disorder is nicknamed the CEO disease?
Ted Turner's God at
Steve Jobs has it.
all three of the founders of Netscape Hudet.
Let it go on and on.
kids, you can see these signs in kids.
We're giving them riddle in and saying don't be an entrepreneurial type.
fit into this other system and try to become a student. Sorry, entrepreneurs aren't students.
We fast track.
We figure out the game.
I stole essays.
I cheated on exams.
hired kids to do my accounting assignments in university for 13 consecutive assignments.
But like as an entrepreneur, you don't do accounting, you hire a accountant.
So I just figured that out earlier.
I'm also quoted, and I told the person who wrote the textbook, I'm now quoted in that exact same university textbook in every Canadian university in college studies in managerial accounting. I'm chapter eight.
open up shop to read talking about budgeting.
And I told the author after they did my interview that I cheated in that same course.
She thought it was too funny to not include it.
But kids, you can see these signs in them.
The definition of an entrepreneur is a person who organizes operates and assumes the risk of a business venture. That doesn't mean you have to go to an MBA program, it doesn't mean you have to get through school.
So, it just means that those few things have to feel right in your gut.
And we've heard those things about is it nurture or is it nature, right?
is a thing one or thing two.
What is it?
Well, I don't think it's either.
I think it can be both.
I was grim, doesn't entrepreneur.
When I was growing up as a young kid, I had no choice because I was taught at a very early young age. When my dad realized I wasn't going to fit into everything else that was being taught to me in school, that he could teach me to figure out business at an early age.
He groomed us the three of us to hate the thought of having a job and to love the fact of creating companies that we can employ other people.
My first little business venture I was seven years old.
I was in Winnipeg and I was lying in my bedroom with one of those long extension cords and I was calling all of the dry cleaners Winnipeg to find out how much with the dry cleaners pay me for coat hangers.
My mom came into the room and she said, where are you going to get the code hangers to sell to the dry cleaners? And I said, let's go and look in the basement. And we went down to the basement and I opened up this cupboard.
and there was about a thousand code hangers that I'd collected because when I told her I was going out to play with the kids, I was going door to door in the neighborhood to collect code hangers to put in the basement to sell. Because I saw her a few weeks before that taking, you could get paid. They used to pay you two cents per code hanger.
So I was just like, well, there's all kinds of code hangers and so I'll just go get them.
I knew she wouldn't want me to go get them, so I just did it anyway.
And I learned that you could actually negotiate with people.
this one person offered me three cents and I got them up to three and a half.
I even knew at a seven year old age that I could actually get a fractional percent of a cent and people would pay that because it multiplied up.
Seven years old, I figured out.
I got three and a half cents for a thousand code hangers.
I sold license plate protector's door to door.
My dad actually made me go find someone who had saw me these things at wholesale.
And at nine years old, I walked around in the city of Sudbury selling licensed prey protectors door to door
And I remember this one customer who's so vividly, because I could never, I also did some other stuff with these clients. I sold newspapers. And he wouldn't buy a newspaper from me ever.
but I was convinced I was going to get him to buy a license plate protector.
And he's like, well, we don't need one. I said, but you've got two cars. I'm nine years old.
But you have two cars and they don't have license plate protectors.
And I said, I know, and I said, and this car here's got one license plate that's all crumpled up. And he said, yes, that's my wife's car. And I said, why don't we just test one on the front of your wife's car and see if it lasts longer. So I knew there were two cars with two license plates on each
if I couldn't sell all four, I could at least get one.
I learned that at a young age.
I did comic book arbitrage.
when I was about 10 years old, I sold comic books, or I were caught in John George and Bay.
and I would go biking up to the end of the beach and buy all the comics from the poor kids and then I would go back to the other end of the beach and sell them to the rich kids.
It was obvious to me, right?
you've got this demand over here that has money.
don't try to sell to the poor kids they don't have cash
the rich people do.
obvious, right?
It's like a recession.
So there's a recession.
still 13 trillion dollars circulating in the U.S. economy.
go get some of that.
I learned that at a young age.
I also learned don't reveal your source because I got beat up after about four weeks of doing this because one of the rich kids found it where I was buying my comics from and he didn't like the fact he was paying a lot more.
I was forced to get a paper root at 10 years old.
I didn't really want to pay for root, but it turned my dad's going to be your next business. So not only would he get me one, but I had to get two.
and he wanted me to hire someone to deliver half the papers, which I did.
Then I realized that collecting tips was where you made all the money.
So
I would collect the tips and get payment. So I would go and collect for all the papers. He could just deliver them.
Because then I realized I could make the money.
By this point, I was definitely not going to be an employee.
My dad owned an automotive and industrial repair shop.
and he had all these old automotive parts lying around.
and they had this old brass and copper.
And so I asked him what he did with it and he said he just throws it out.
and I said, but wouldn't somebody pay you for that and he goes maybe. I'm right, 10 years old, so 34 years ago, I saw opportunity in this stuff. I saw there was money in garbage.
I was actually collecting it from all the automotive shops in the area on my bicycle.
my dad would drive me on Saturdays to a scrap metal recycler where I got paid.
And I thought that was kind of cool.
Strangely enough, like 30 years later, we're building 1-800-GOD junk.
making money off that too.
I built these little pin cushions, and I was 11 years old and cabs
we made these pin cushions for our moms for Mother's Day and you made these pin cushions out of wooden closets, we used to hang clothes on clothes lines outside.
can you make this chairs
and I had these little pillows that I would sew up.
and you could stuff pins in them.
people used to sell and they needed a pin cushion.
But what I realized was that you had to have options, so I actually spray painted a whole bunch of them brown. And then when I went to the door, it wasn't you want to buy one. It was like, which color would you like? Like I'm 10 years old, you're not going to say no to me. And especially if you have two options, you have the brown one of the clear one.
So I learned that lesson as a young age.
I learned that manual labor really sucks.
Right, like cutting lawns is brutal.
But because I had to cut lawns all summer for all of our neighbors and get paid to do that, I realized that recurring revenue from one client is amazing. But if I'm cutting, if I land this client once and every week I get paid by that person, that's way better than trying to sell one close pin thing to one person because you can't sell them more.
So I love that recurring revenue model I started to learn to the young age.
Remember I was being groomed to do this.
I was not allowed to have jobs.
I would cady, I'd go to the golf course and cady for people, but I realized there was this one hill on our golf course, the 13th hole that had this huge hill and people could never get their bags up it.
So I would sit there with a Von Cher and just carry up all the people who didn't have caddies.
carry their golf bags up to the top and they pay me a dollar. Meanwhile, my friends were working for five hours to haul some guys bag around and get paid 10 bucks.
I'm like that's stupid.
to work for five hours.
That doesn't make any sense.
figure out a way to make more money faster.
Every week I would go to the corner store and buy all these pops and I would go up and deliver them to these seven year old women playing bridge.
and they'd give me their orders to the following week.
liver pop and I just charged twice.
I had this captured market.
You didn't need contracts. You just needed to have a supply and demand and this audience who bought into you.
these women weren't going to go to anybody else because they liked me and I kind of figured it out.
I went and got golf balls from golf courses.
But everybody else was like walking and the bush and looking in the ditches for golf balls.
I'm like screw that.
They're all in the pond.
and nobody's going into the pond.
So I would go into the pawns and crawl around and pick them up with my toes. Just pick them up with both feet.
you can't do it on stage.
And you get the golf balls and you just throw them in your bathing suit trunk so when you're done you got a couple hundred of them.
But the problem is that people didn't all want all the golf balls
So I just package them.
I'm like 12, right?
I packaged them up three ways.
I had the pinnacles and DDHs and the really cool ones.
Those sold for $2 each.
and then I had all the good ones that didn't look crappy. They were 50 cents each.
and then I'd sell 50 at a time of all the crappy ones.
and they could use those for practice balls.
I saw sunglasses when I was in school to all the kids in high school.
This is what really kind of gets everybody hating you is because you're trying to extract money from all your friends all the time.
but pay the bills.
So I sold lots and lots of sunglasses.
And then when the school shut me down, the school actually called me into the office and told me I couldn't do it. So I went to the gas stations and I sold lots of them to the gas stations and had the gas stations sell them to their customers.
That was cool because then I had to retail outlets.
And I was
And then I paid my entire way through first your university at Carlton by selling Weinskins door to door.
So you know that you can hold a 40 ounce bottle of rum and two bottles of coconut wine skin.
So what, right?
But you know what?
down your shorts when you go into a football game you can get booze in for free
Everybody bought them.
Supply demand, big opportunity.
I also branded it so I sold them for five times in normal cost.
at our university logo on it.
We teach our kids and we buy them games, but why don't we get them games if they're entrepreneurial kids that kind of nurture the traits that you need to be entrepreneurs.
Why don't you teach them not to waste money?
I remember being told the walk out into the middle of the street in Bamfell,
thrown a penny out in the street. My dad said, go pick it up.
I work too damn hard for my money.
I'm not going to see you ever waste a penny and I remember that lesson to this day.
Allowances teach kids the wrong habits.
allowances by nature teaching kids to think about a job.
An entrepreneur doesn't expect a regular paycheck.
Allowance is breeding kids at a young age to expect a regular paycheck.
That's wrong for me if you want to raise entrepreneurs.
What I do with my kids now, I've got two nine and seven as I teach them to walk around the house and the yard looking for stuff that needs to get done.
Come to me and tell me what it is.
or I'll come to them and say, here's what I need done. And then you know what we do?
we negotiate.
They go around looking for what it is, but then we negotiate on what they're going to get paid.
They don't have a regular check, but they have more opportunities to find more stuff and they learn the skill of negotiating and they learn the skill of finding opportunities as well.
You breed that kind of stuff.
Each of my kids is two piggy banks.
50% of all the money that they earn or get gifted, 50% goes in their house account, 50% goes in their toy account.
to account they can spend on whatever they want.
The 50% it was in their house, it kind of every six months goes to the bank.
They walk up with me.
every year, all the money in the bank goes to their broker.
Both by nine and seven year old have a stockbroker already.
But I'm teaching them to force that savings habit.
It drives me crazy that 30 year olds are saying maybe I'll start contributing to my RRSP now. Shit, you've missed 25 years.
You can teach those habits to young kids when they don't even feel the pain yet.
Don't read them bedtime stories every night, maybe four nights out of the week, read them bedtime stories and three nights of the week have them tell stories.
Why don't you sit down with kids and give them four items? A red shirt, a blue tie, a kangaroo, and a laptop, and have them tell a story about those four things.
My kids do that all the time.
and it teaches them to sell, it teaches them creativity, it teaches them to think on their feet.
do that kind of stuff and have fun with it.
get kids to stand up in front of groups and talk even if it's just stand up in front of the friends and do plays and have speeches.
those are entrepreneurial traits that you want to be nurturing.
Show the kids what bad customers are bad employees look like.
show them the grumpy employees.
when you see grumpy customer service point that out.
say, by the way, that guy's a crappy employee and say, these ones are good ones. If you go into a restaurant, you have bad customer service, show them what bad customer service looks like.
We have all of these lessons in front of us that we don't take those opportunities. We teach kids to go get a tutor.
Imagine if you actually took all the kids junk that's in the house right now, all the toys that they're outgrown two years ago and said why don't we start selling some of this on Craigslist and Kajiji and they can actually sell it and learn how to find scammers when they get email offers come in.
They can come into your account or subaccount or whatever.
But teach them how to fix the price, guess the price? Pull up the logos like, are they the photos?
teach them how to do that kind of stuff and make money.
And then the money they get, 50% goes in their house account, 50% goes in their toilet account.
My kids love this stuff.
Some of the entrepreneurial trace that you got in nurturing kids attainment to the asset of leadership, introspection, interdependence, values.
All these traits you can find in young kids and you can help nurture them.
Look for that kind of stuff.
There's two traits that I want you to also look out for that we don't kind of get out of their system.
Don't medicate kids for attention deficit disorder unless it is really, really freaking bad.
bipolar disorder is nickname the CEO disease when Steve Jervits and Jim Clark and Jim Barclay have all got it and they built an escape imagine if they were given riddle in
we wouldn't have that stuff, right?
Our Gore would have really had to have invented the internet.
These skills are the skills that we should be teaching in the classroom as well as everything else.
I'm not saying don't get kids to want to be lawyers.
But how about getting entrepreneurship to be ranked right up there with the rest of them?
because there's huge opportunities in that.
I want to close with a quick little video. It's a video that was stunned by one of the companies I mentor.
These guys, grasshopper.
It's about kids.
It's a boat entrepreneurship.
Hopefully this inspires you to take what you've heard from me and do something with it to change the world.
you
A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-
you
I was here four years ago and I remember at the time that the talks weren't put online.
I think they were given to testers in a box, a box set of DVDs, which they put on their shelves where they are now.
And actually Chris called me a week after I'd give my talk and said we're gonna start putting them online
Mae'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
Mae'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n y
Chris says there is a hunger for videos of me.
So this whole event has been an elaborate build-up to me doing another one for you. So here's his
And Al Gore spoke at the Ted conference in Spoke at four years ago and talked about the climate crisis.
and I referenced that at the end of my last talk.
So I want to pick up from there because I only had 18 minutes, frankly.
And so that's how we're saying. You see, he's right.
I mean there is a major climate crisis obviously and I think if people don't believe it they should get ammo.
Mae'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n
And I am mean by this and you may say by the way, look how good.
I have one climate crisis. I don't really need the second one. But this is a crisis of not natural resources that I believe that's true, but a crisis of human resources.
Mae'n ymthio'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r
Mae'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
I lead all kinds of people who don't think they're really good at anything.
Actually, I kind of divide the world into two groups now.
Gwyneth i'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
He said there are two types of people in this world. Those who divide the world into two types and those who do not. Well, I do.
I meet all kinds of people who don't enjoy what they do.
They simply go through their lives, getting on with it.
they get no great pleasure from what they do.
yn ymgyrd yn ymgyrd yn ymgyrd.
but I also meet people who love what they do and couldn't imagine doing anything else.
If you set them, don't do this anymore. They'd wonder what you're talking about.
There's nothing they do, it's who they are.
They say, but this is me.
Mae'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
In fact, on the country, I think it's a story of a minority of people.
And I think there are many possible explanations for it.
And high among them is education. Because education in a way dislocates very many people from their natural talents.
And human resources are like natural resources. They're often very deep.
You have to go looking for them and they're not just lying around on the surface.
You have to create the circumstance is where they show themselves.
And you might imagine education would be the way that happens, but too often it's not.
Every education system in the world is being reformed at the moment. And it's not enough.
reform is no use anymore. Because that's simply improving a broken model.
What we need in the words we use many times during the course the past few days is not evolution, but a revolution in education.
This has to be transformed into something else.
innovation is hard because it means doing something that people don't find very easy for the most part.
it means challenging what we take for granted. Things that we think are obvious.
The great problem for reform or transformation is the tyranny of common sense.
Y'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n y
But he said this in December 1862 to the second annual meeting of Congress.
I ought to explain that I have no idea what was happening at the time.
We don't teach American history in Britain.
We suppress it.
You know, this is our policy.
So no doubt something fascinating is happening in December 1862, which Americans among us will be aware of.
But he said this, the dogmas of the quiet past are inadequate to the stormy present.
The occasion is piled high with difficulty and we must rise with the occasion. I love that.
not rise to it, rise with it.
Mae'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
Mae'n dysenthrown ar sells, yw'n dysenthrown ar yw'n dysenthrown.
there are ideas that all of us are enthralled to which we simply take for granted as the natural order things the way things are.
And many of our ideas have been formed not to meet the circumstances of this century, but to cope with the circumstances of previous centuries.
But our minds are still hypnotized by them. And we have to descend through ourselves of some of them.
Mae'n i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r
It's very hard to know by the way what it is you take for granted.
and the reason is that you take it for granted.
So let me ask you something you may take for granted.
Mae'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
That's not what I think you take for granted. I'm sure you're familiar with that.
Mae'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
Great.
Now, those over 25, could you put your hands up if you're wearing a wristwatch?
Mae'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
Ask a room full of teenagers the same thing.
teenagers do not wear wristwatch.
I don't mean they can't, or they're not allowed to, they just often choose not to.
And the reason is you see that we were brought up in a pre-digital culture, though, as it was over 25.
and so for us. If you want to know the time, you have to wear something to tell it.
Kids now live in a world which is digitized and the time for them is everywhere.
They see no reason to do this.
And by the way, you don't need to do it either. It's just that you've always done it. And you carry on doing it.
My daughter never wears a watch, my daughter Kate who's 20.
She doesn't see the point.
And as she says, it's a single function device. Like how lame is that? And I say, no, no, it tells the date as well. It has multiple functions. BC, there are things we're in throught to in education.
yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud yn ymthio'r cyllwneud
Mae'n yw'n i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'
Everybody who's spoken at TED has told us implicitly or sometimes explicitly a different story that life is not linear, it's organic.
We create our lives symbiotically as we explore our talents in relation to the circumstances they help to create for us.
Yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n
and probably the pinnacle for education is getting you to college.
I think we are obsessed with getting people to college.
yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd yn y ffysd
I don't think you shouldn't go to college, but not everybody needs to go, and not everybody needs to go now.
Maybe they go later, not right away.
I was up in San Francisco a while ago doing a book signing.
There's a sky bang a book. It is in his 30s.
Yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
I've always been a farmer. And I said, well, when did you decide? They said, this is a kid.
Mae'n ac yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i
This one teacher didn't take it seriously.
Yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
because he said in front of the hover class and I really felt dreadful.
Mae'n yw'n i'n i'n synes a'r scholeu, a'i apladw'r fysau'r synes a'r'n i'r'n i'r'n i'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r'r
This linearity thing is a problem.
Mae'n rhaith yn y a fyddio'r ma'n iawn i'n iawn i'r cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cymwr cy
dozens.
If we had time, I could go into this, but we don't.
Kindergarten begins in kindergarten.
Mae'n yw'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymth
I'm going to say it.
The other big issue is conformity.
We have built our education systems on the model of fast food.
This is something Jamie Oliver talked about the other day.
the two models of quality assurance in catering.
What is fast food where everything is standardized?
The other things like Zagat and Michelin restaurants where everything is not standardized, they're customized to local circumstances.
Yn yw'r gwneud yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ym
One is that human talent is tremendously diverse.
people have very different aptitudes.
Mae'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
You know, it worked out for Eric, that's all I'm saying.
Anyway, it did not for me.
a ddwythu'n gwneud yn ymthu'n gwneud, a ddwythu'n gwneud, a ddwythu'n gwneud.
just wouldn't wear.
you
yn ydym yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn y
Often people are good at things that don't really care for.
Mae'n yw'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i
And if you're doing the thing that you love to do that you're good at, time takes a different course entirely.
My wife just finished writing a novel. And I think it's a great book, but she disappears for hours on end.
You know this, if you're doing something you love, an hour feels like five minutes.
If you're doing something doesn't resonate with your spirits, five minutes feels like an hour.
Mae'n yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn
So I think we have to change metaphors.
Mae'n yw'n i'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n i'n fachrion modell, mae'n i'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n i'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n i'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n i'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n i'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n i'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n ddastro'l modellau, mae'n
Mae'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymth
We have to recognize that human flourishing is not a mechanical process, it's an organic process.
and you cannot predict the outcome of human development.
All you can do is flag a farmer is create the conditions under which they will begin to flourish.
So when we look at reforming education and transform it, it isn't like cloning a system.
There are great ones like Kips, it's a great system.
There are many great models.
y yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw
Yn yw'n gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau'r gwneud yn ymthau
Mae'n yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar yw'n ar y
These technologies combined with extraordinary talents of teachers provide an opportunity to revolutionize education.
a ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy'n i'r ddwy
but we have to change from the industrial model to an agricultural model where each school can be flourishing tomorrow.
Mae'n yw'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i
o ydym yn ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud, o ymthau'r gwneud,
Mae'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n yna'n y
Yn yw'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio
I wanted to read your quick very short phone from WB
you
So some of you may know.
Mae'n i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r
And he says, I've got something else, but it may not be for you. He says this, how do I the heavens embroidered cloths in rot with gold and silver light, of blue and the dim and the dark cloths of night and light and the half light? I would spread the cloths under your feet, but I, being poor, have only my dreams. I have spread my dreams under your feet. Tread softly because you tread on my dreams. And every day, everywhere, our children spread their dreams beneath our feet.
And we should tread softly. Thank you.
you
I bring to you a message from tens of thousands of people in the villages, in the slums, in the hinterland of the country who have solved problems through their own genius without any outside help.
When our hoministar announces a few weeks ago, a war on one third of India about 200 districts that he mentioned were ungovernable, he missed a point.
A point that we have been stressing for last until one years. The point that people may be economically poor, but they are not poor in the mind.
In other words, the minds on the margin are not the marginal minds.
That is the message which we started 21 years ago.
And what did it start?
Let me just tell you briefly, my personal journey which led me to come to this point.
85, 56, I was in Bangladesh advising the government and the research council there, how to help scientists work on the lands on the fields of the poor people and how to develop research technologies which are based on the knowledge of the people.
I came back in a G6.
I had been tremendously invigorated by the knowledge and creativity that I found in that country which had 60% landlessness, but amazing creativity.
I started looking at my own work. They work that I had done for the previous 10 years, almost every time had instances of knowledge that people had shared.
Now I was paid in dollars as a consultant and I looked at my income test return and tried to ask myself, is there a line in my return which shows how much of this income gone to the people whose knowledge has made it possible?
Was it because I am brilliant that I am getting this reward or the extra recognition?
Is it that I write very well?
Is it that I articulate very well?
is it that I analyze the data very well.
is it because I'm a professor and therefore I must be entitled to this reward from the society? I try to convince myself, no, no, no, I have our good for the policy changes.
of the public policy will become more responsive to the needs of the poor. And therefore, I think it's okay. But it appeared to me that all these years that I had been working on exploitation, exploitation by landlords, by malinanders, by traders, gave me an insight that probably I was also an exploiter. Because there was no line in my country to return, which showed this income accrued because of the brilliance of the people, those people who have shared their knowledge and good faith can trust with me and nothing ever went back to them.
So much so that much of my work till the time was an English language.
majority of the people from whom I learned didn't know English.
So what work, what kind of accountability it was?
I was talking about social justice and here I was a professional who was pursuing the most unjust act of taking knowledge from the people, making them an anonymous, getting rent from that knowledge by sharing it and doing consultancy writing papers and publishing them in the papers, getting invited to the conferences, getting consultancies and whatever have you.
So then, if Dilma arose in the mind that if I am also an exploiter then this is not right. Life cannot go on like that.
And this was a moment of great pain and trauma because I couldn't live with it any longer.
So I did a review of a ethical dilemma and value conflicts in management research, wrote, write about 100 papers.
And I came to the conclusion that while Dalma is unique, Dalma is not unique, the solution had to be unique.
And one day I don't know what happened while coming back from the office towards home. I'm maybe I saw a honey bee or it occurred to my mind that if I could be like honey bee, the life would be wonderful.
What honey bead does? It pollinates, takes nectar from the flower, pollinate and the flower, cross pollinate.
and when it takes the nectar the flowers don't feel short-changed.
In fact, they invite the honeywis, so they call us and they don't keep the bees, don't keep all the honey for themselves.
these are three guiding principles of Honeybeen at work. That whenever we learn something from people, it must be shared with them in the language.
They must not remain anonymous.
And I must tell you that after 20 years, I have not made one percent change in the professional practice of this art.
That is a great tragedy which I am carrying is still with me and I hope that all of you will carry this with you. That the profession is still legitimizes publication of knowledge of people without attributing them by admitting them anonymous.
We are talking about an accountable society, a society which is fair and just and we don't even do justice in the knowledge market.
and India wants to be a knowledge society.
How will it be in all its society?
So obviously you cannot have two principles of justice. One for yourself and one for others.
It must be same.
you cannot discriminate.
you cannot be in favor of your own value which are at distance from the values that you espouse.
So, fairness to one and to the other is not divisible.
Look at this picture.
Can you tell me where is it been taken from? And what is it meant for?
Anybody?
I'm a professor. I must quiz you.
Anybody
any guess at all?
발은?
What has it been used for?
What has been used for
fall.
You know, you're so right.
We must give him a hand because this man knows how insensitive of a government is.
Look at this.
This is the site of Ghamat of India.
It invites tourists to see the shame of our country.
I'm so sorry to say that.
This is a beautiful picture or is an terrible picture.
Depends upon how you look at the life of the people.
If this woman has to carry water on her head for miles and miles and miles, you cannot be celebrating that.
We should need to be doing something about it.
And let me tell you with all the science and technology that are command, millions of women still carry water on their head.
and we do not ask this question.
You must have taken tea in the morning.
Think for a minute.
The leaves of the tea plucked from the bushes. You know what the action is?
is the lady picks up the few leaves, put them in the basket on the backside.
just do it 10 times you will realize the pain in this shoulder.
And she does it thousands times every day.
the rice that you ate in the lunch and you will eat today is transplanted by women bending in a very awkward posture millions of them every season in the paddy season when they transplant paddy with their feet in the water.
and feet, been the water will develop fungus infections. And that infection pains because then other insects bite that point.
and every year 99.9% of the paddies transplanted manually.
No machines have been developed.
So the silence of scientist of technologist of public policy makers of the change agent, do you understand that this is not on, this is not on, this is not the way society will
This is not what our parliament would do.
You know, we have a program for employment. 150 million people have to be given jobs for 100 days by this great country.
for doing what?
breaking stones digging up.
So we took a question, we asked the question to the parliament that do poor have heads
Dopour have legs, mouth and hand, but no head.
So honey, we network builds upon the resource in which poor people are rich.
and what does happen?
anonymous, faceless, nameless person gets in contact with the network and then gets an identity.
This is what Honeybee network is about.
And this network grew voluntarily, continuously, we've all been free and has tried to map the minds of millions of people, of our country and other parts of the world who are creating
They could be creative in terms of education, they may be creative in terms of culture, they could be creative in terms of institutions, but how to work is in the field of technological creativity. The innovations either in terms of contemporary innovations or in terms of traditional knowledge.
and it all begins with curiosity.
It all begins with curiosity.
this person whom we met and you will see it on the website, suchi.org, this travel person. He had a wish.
And he said, if my wish gets fulfilled, somebody was sick and he had a manata that, look, God, please cure him.
And if you tear him, I will get my wall painted and this is what he got painted.
Somebody was talking yesterday about Maslovi and Hararki.
There could be nothing more wrong than the Maslowian model of hierarchy of needs because the poorest people in this country can get enlightenment.
Karvij Rahim, all the great saints, Sufi saints, they were all poor people and they had a great vision.
any person anywhere is capable of rising to that highest point of attainment only by the resolve that they have in their mind that they must achieve something.
look at this.
Vizsajt, ennálsodja a trá
every six months we've worked in doing parts of the country.
I've talked about 4,000 kilometers in the last 12 years.
So, on the way side we found these dunk cakes which are used as a full
But this lady on the wall of the Dunkirk heap has made a painting.
That's the only space you could express or creativity.
and she's so marvelous.
पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे पुप्रे प�
In Champaran we had to show the appra and we were walking in the land where Gandhi Ji went to hear about the tragedy pain of the Indigo growers.
Habi Mahato in Purulia in Bancora
Look at what she has done.
واني
He's sitting there with a broom.
از شینات از انا نارتیست
obviously she is an artist. She is creative person.
If we can create markets for these artists, we will not have to employ them for digging earth and baking stones.
They will be paid for what they're good at, not what they're bad at.
In Champaran, there were a lot of people who sell tea on the shelf. And obviously there is a limited market
morning you had T as well as coffee.
So he thought why not convert a pressure cooker into a coffee machine?
So this is a coffee machine.
just takes a few hundred rupees.
people bring their own cooker, he attaches a wall when it is clean pipe and now he gives you a special coffee.
Now this is as the real affordable coffee per collector works on the gas.
Now the poor people do not have enough grains to get ground.
So this fellow is bringing a drop floor grinding machine on it to Viller.
If you have 500 grams, 1000 1 kilogram, he will grant it for you. The floor will not grind for a small quantity.
Please understand the problem of poor people.
they have needs which have to be met efficiently in terms of energy in terms of cost, in terms of quality.
they do not want second standard second quality outputs.
but to be able to give them high quality output, you need to adapt technology to their needs.
and that's what shaked longer
But that's not what he did.
look at what he did here.
If you have clothes and you don't have enough time to wash them, you brought a washing machine to your doorstep mounted on a two wheeler.
So, it's a model where a two-wheeler washing machine
he is washing the clothes and drying them at a doorstep.
charge 50 pass a 1 rupee for you per plot and a new business model can
much. Now what we need is we need people who will be able to scale them up.
Look at this.
It looks like a beautiful photograph.
But you know what it is?
can anybody guess what it is?
Somebody from India would know of course.
It's a...
It is a tower, is a hot plate made of clay.
Now, what is the beauty in it?
When you have a non-stick pan, it costs about maybe $250, $5, $6.
This is less than a dollar and this is a non stick. It is coated with one of these food-grade materials.
And the best part is that while you use a costly non-stick pan, you eat the so called teflon of teflon like material. Because after some time the surface appears.
Don't
it has gone in your stomach.
It was not meant for that.
You know?
But here in this plate, hot plate, it would never go into a stomach.
So, it is better, it is safer, it is affordable, it is an energy efficient.
In other words, solutions by the poor people need not be cheaper, need not be so called jaguar, need not be some kind of makeshift arrangement.
They have to be better, they have to more efficient, they have to be affordable.
And that is what Manso Bhai Pajapati has done.
He has designed this blade with a handle.
And now in one dollar you can afford a better alternative than the people market is offering you.
This lady, she developed a horrible pesticide formulation.
we file the patent for her.
and honours.
somebody will license this technology and develop marketable products and she would get revenue.
Now let me mention one thing, I think we need a polycentric model of development where large number of initiatives in different parts of the country, in different parts of the world would not serve the needs of locality in a very efficient and adeptive manner.
higher the local fit, greater is the chance of scaling up.
In the scaling of there is an inherent in advocacy to match the needs of the local people point by point with the supply that you are making.
So, while people are willing to adjust with that mismatch,
They can think and scale up and they have scale up.
For example, cell phones, we have 400 million cell phones in this country.
Now it is possible that I will use only two buttons in the cell phone only three options in the cell phone
it has 300 options. I'm paying for 300. I'm using only 3, but I'm willing to live with it. Therefore, it is scaling up.
But if I had to get a match to match, obviously I would need a different design of a cell phone.
So what we are saying is that scalability should not become enemy of sustainability.
There must be a place in the world for solutions that are only relevant for locality and yet one can be able to find them.
One of the greatest fragile that we have been finding is that many times investors would ask this question, what is the scalable model? As if need of a community which is only located in a space and time and has those needs only located in those places have no legitimate right to get them fulfilled because they are not part of a large scale.
So either you swap to major needs to a large scale or else you remain out.
Now the M.O.D. model tells you that small sales of large number of books for example having only a few copies sold can still be a viable model.
And we must find a mechanism where people will pull in the portfolio. We will invest in the portfolio where different innovations will go to small number of people in their localities and yet the overall platform the model will become viable.
Look at what he is doing.
Sadullah Sahib is an amazing man.
at the age of 70, he is linking up something very
creative.
고잉
بیار سے ملعی
you
you
Perkihar Swoomi, aviskar ka saara lena hai kanta. Aviskar hai merinur ka luna hai. Nei pojhe merin zeghi ka juna hai.
My ignorance is not my fault.
wonderful human being, but still sells at this age, honey on a cycle to earn his livelihood because we have not been able to convince the water park people, they have got lake people in various municipal corporations.
not be able to convince the fire brigade people in Mumbai where there was a flood few years ago and people have to walk 20 kilometers waiting in the water that look you should have the cycling in your fire brigade office because you can then go to those lanes where your buses will not go where your transport would not go.
So we have not yet cracked that problem of making it available as a rescue device as a winding device during the floods in the eastern India when you have to deliver things to people in different islands where they are
But idea has a merit.
What has a Pachandan?
But he has left behind a message.
a very powerful message.
1.5 kg
3-4-2-3-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-
Now I can go right.
and a professor in Massachusetts University in Zoligit Department bought this climbber because she wanted to study the insect diversity on the top of the tree canopy.
and this device makes it possible for her to take sample from large number of farms rather than only fuel because at least you have to make a bit platform and then climb her peer district requirement that.
So, you know, we are advancing the frontiers of science.
Raymea Joss has developed
You can go to the YouTube and find India in over it and then you will find these videos.
Innovation by her, when she went to class 10, washing machine, exercising machine.
Mr Karayu is a physical challenge person one and half foot height only.
but he has modified the two-wheeler so that he can get autonomy and freedom and flexibility.
This innovation is from the slums of Rio.
And this person Mr. Ubeda Jara
We were talking about by friends in Brazil as to how do we scale up this model in China and Brazil
We have a very vibrant network in China, particularly, but also emerging in Brazil and other parts of the world.
This is Stan on the front wheel, you will not find in any site.
India and China have the largest number of sites.
But this innovation emerged in Brazil.
know we have to have the humility to learn from knowledge, rich, economically poor people wherever they are.
and look at this whole range of cycle based innovation cycle of the sprayer cycle which generates energy from the shocks on the road
I can't change the condition of the road, I can make cycle run faster.
That is what Konek does has done.
and this is a donkey car which they modify.
there is an axial here of 30 40 kg was serving no purpose.
Remove it, the card becomes needs one tanky less.
This is China.
This God needed a breathing apparatus.
And there are three people in the village sat down and decided to sit, how do we elongate the life of this girl in a far village? They were not related to her. But they tried to find out how can we use the
the pipe of the washing machine that uses a side kill, they put together breathing apparatus.
and this breathing apparatus is now saved alive and she is being welcomed.
a whole range of innovations that we have.
a car which runs on the compressed air with six pass-up or
aam kanak bogoi.
and you would not find this car in the US of Europe but this is available in India.
Now this lady, she used to do the winding of the yarn for Pocampalesei.
in one day, 18,000 times she had to do this winding, it generated two
this is what his son has done after 70 years of struggle.
And she said change your profession, and he said I can't.
This is the only thing I know, but I will invent a machine which will solve a problem. And this is what he did. Also machine in another position.
So this is what Sashit is saying, give me a place to stand and I will move the word. I would just tell you that we are also doing competition among children for creativity, a whole range of things.
We have sold things all over the world from Ethiopia to Turkey to US to wherever.
Products have gone to the market, a few.
These are the people whose knowledge made this harbawate cream for Exima possible.
And here, a company which licensed the sub-peticide put the photograph of the innovator on the packing so that every time a user uses it, it asks the user you can also be an innovator.
if you have an idea send it back to us. So, creativity counts knowledge matters, innovation transforms incentives inspired.
and incent is not just material but also non-material incentives.
Thank you.
So the first rule that's talk about is called Strider.
stands for a self-excited tri-petal dynamic experimenter robot.
It's a robot that has three legs, which is inspired by nature.
But have you seen anything in nature and the animal that has three legs?
you know.
So why do I call this a biologically inspired robot?
How would it work?
But before that, let's look at pop culture.
So, you know, H2 Wells World Worlds novel, a movie.
And what you see over here is a very popular video game. And these fiction-day describes alien creatures and robots that have three legs that terrorize Earth.
But my robot strider does not move like this.
So this is an actual dynamic simulation animation.
going to show you how it did robot works.
It flips its body 180 degrees, it swings its legs between the two legs and catches the fall.
So that's how it walks.
But when you look at us human being bipedal walking, what you're doing is you're not really using a muscle to lift your leg and do like and walk like a robot.
What you're doing is you really swing your leg and cast the ball, stand up against swing your leg and cast the ball.
using your built-in dynamics, the physics of your body, just like a pendulum.
We call that the cause above passive dynamic local mode.
What you're doing is when you stand up potential energy to kinetic energy, potential energy to kinetic energy, kinetic energy.
It's a constantly falling process.
So even though there's nothing in nature that looks like this, really we're inspired by biology and applying the principles of walking to this robot.
biologically inspired robot.
What you see over here, this is what we want to do next.
want to fold up the legs and shoot it up for long range motion.
and it deploys legs it looks almost like stalwarts when it lands it absorbs the shock and starts walking
What you see over here, this yellow thing, this is not a death ray.
This is just to show you that if we have cameras at different types of sensors because it is tall. It's 1.8 meters tall. You can see over obstacles and bushes and those kind of things.
So we have two prototypes.
the first version in the back that's
the one in the front of the small one is
The problem that we had with Strider 1 is it was just to heavy in the body.
We've got so many orders, you know, aligning the joints and those kind of things.
So we decided to synthesize a mechanical mechanism so we can get rid of all the motors and with a single motor we can coordinate all the motions.
We kind of a solution to a problem is serving in the NECAT
So with this now the top body is light enough so it's walking all that.
This is always a very first successful step.
It's still not perfect, it's coffee falls down so we still have a lot of work to do.
The second robot I want to talk about is called Impass.
it stands for Intelligent, Mobili Platform, where the actuated spoke system.
It's a wheel leg hybrid robot.
So think of a rimless wheel or a spoke wheel, but the spokes individually move in and out of the hub. So it's a wheel leg hybrid.
We're literally re-imbedding the wheel here.
Let me show how it demonstrates how it works.
So in this video, we're using a approach called Reactive Approach.
Just simply using a tactile sensors on the feet, it's trying to walk over a changing train, a soft train where it pushes it down to changes.
And just by the tactile information, it successfully crosses over these platforms.
But when it encounters a very extreme terrain, in this case, this obstacle is more than three times the height of the robot than a switch is to a deliberate mode where it uses a laser range finder and camera systems to identify the obstacle on the size.
and it plans carefully plans the motion of the spokes and coordinates it so that it can show this kind of very, very impressive mobility.
You probably haven't seen anything like this out there.
This is a very high-movey robot that we developed called Kempath.
Ah, is that cool?
When you drive your car, when you steer your car, use a method called Accumence During.
the fun wheels rotate like this.
For most of the small wheeled robots they use a method called differential scaring where the left and right wheel turned off the direction.
And for in-pass, we can do many many different types of emotions.
For example, in this case, even the left on right wheel is connected with a single axle, rotating the same angle of velocity. We just simply change the length of the scope, effective diameter, and then you get to the left, and let's drive.
These are the some examples of the deep things that we can do with impact.
This robot is called Climer. Cables suspended Lyme's intelligent matching behavior robot.
So I've been talking to a lot of NASA JPL scientists, a JPL their famous for the Mars Rovers, and the scientists, geology just always tells me that the real interesting science, the science research sites are always at the cliffs.
But the Rooker and Rovers kind of get there.
So in spite of that, we want to build a robot that can climb a structured clip environment.
So this is climber.
So what it does, it has three legs.
probably can't it's difficult to see but has a winch on a cable on the top.
I try to figure out the best place to put its foot.
and then once the figure is out, in real time it calculates the force distribution. How much force and needs to exert to the surface so it doesn't tip and doesn't slip.
Once the stabilizes that, it lifts the foot and then with the winch, we can climb up, he's kind of
Also for search on vests, do you have cases as well?
Five years ago, I actually worked at NASA GAPL doing the summer as a faculty fellow.
and the day already had a six leg robot car a limers
So this is actually based on that.
This robot is called Mars, multi-epidish robot-exist system.
So it's a hex up on robot.
We've developed our adaptive gate planner.
We actually have a very interesting payload on there.
It's just like to have fun.
And here you can see that it's walking over on structure 3.
It's trying to warm up the forestop frame, the sagging area, but depending on the moisture content or the size or the grain size of the sand, the foot soil sink is a model changes. So it tries to adapt and skate the excessively crossed over these kind of things.
It also does some fun stuff.
As kind of imagine we get so many visitors of visiting our labs.
So when the visitors come, Mars walks up to the computer, starts typing, hello, my name is Mars.
Welcome to Romellan. The Royce on Becco, this is love a toy yet. Virginie attack. This robot is a Meeba robot.
Now, we don't have enough time to go into technical details. I'll do it. It's just show you some of the experiments.
This is all of the early feasible fixed spreads.
We store potential energy to the elastic skin to make it move or use active tension course to make it move forward and backward.
It's called Kymera.
We also have been working with some scientists and engineers from New Penn to come up with a chemically-actuated version of this Viva Robot.
We do something to something and just like magic.
this robot is a very recent project
called Rafael Robotic AirPoward Handwood Lastic Ligaments.
There are a lot of really neat, very good robotic hands out there in the market.
The problem is they're just too expensive tens of thousands of dollars.
So for processes applications, probably not to practical because it's not affordable.
We want to tackle this problem in a very different direction.
instead of using electrical motors, electrical actuators, we're using compressed air.
We do all these novel actuators for the joints. It's just compliance.
can actually change the force simply just changing the air pressure.
and it can actually crush an empty sort of can.
It can pick up very delicate objects like a raw egg, or in this case a light bulb.
The best part, it took only $200 to make the first prototype.
This robot is actually a family of snake robots that we call hydros. Hyperduous or feed on robotic articulated server dying.
This is the rule that can climb structures.
This is a hydros arm.
It's a totally different feature from Robotic Arm.
but the cool part is the user interface.
the cable over there that's an optical fiber.
This student probably the first time using it, but she can articulate in many different ways. So for example, in the ERR, you know, the war zone, there's the roadside bombs. Currently, it's time this, uh, uh, uh, remotely controlled vehicles with an arm. It takes really a lot of time and is expensive to train the operator to operate this complex arm. In this case, it's very intuitive. This student probably first time using it.
objects and doing manipulation just like that.
very intuitive.
Now this robot is currently our star robot.
We actually have a fan club for the robot Darwin dynamic anthropomorphic robot with intelligence.
As you know, we are very interested in human walking, so we decided to build a small human robot.
This is at 2 in 2004. At that time, this is something really, really revolutionary.
This is more of a feasible study. What kind of motor should we use?
Is it even possible?
What kind of control should you do?
This does not have any sensors, so it's an open loop control.
for those who probably know if you don't have any sensors and there's any disturbances, you know what happens.
Based on that success and the following year we did the proper mechanical design starting from
and thus Darwin 1 was born in 2005.
It stands up and walks very impressive.
However, still, as you can see, has a port and a belly before.
So, we're still using external power source and external computation.
So in 2006, now it's really time to have fun.
Let's give it intelligence.
We give all the competing power needs, 1.5 yards, Pentium M chip, 2 fire arc cameras, Ray Chiro's X-Longers, 4th Torx sensor on the foot, leave them ponger batteries, and now, darned two, is completely autonomous.
It is not really controlled.
There's no feathers.
It looks around, searches for the ball.
looks around such a protocol and tries to play a game of soccer autonomously. Artificial Intelligence.
Let's see how it does.
This was our very first trial.
Oh!
There's actually a competition called Robocop
I don't know how many of you heard about a
It's an international autonomous robot soccer competition.
and the goal of Rogokov to offshore goal is by the year 2050. We want to have full size autonomous human robots, place, soccer against the human, roll-cub champions and win.
It's a true obstacle.
It's a very efficient school, but we truly believe that we can do it.
This is all last year in China.
We were the very first team in the United States that qualified in the human labor group's competition.
This is this year, and this is an Austria.
the act of three against three.
There you go.
Yes.
The robots track and they deploy a team play amongst themselves.
It's very impressive.
There's really a research event packaged and a more exciting competition event.
What you see over here, this is the beautiful Louis Vuitton cup trophy.
this for the best humanoid.
like to bring this for the very first 20 United States next year so wish us luck.
Last year, it actually conducted the Rhino Symphony Orchestra for the holiday concert.
This is the next generation robot going for much smarter, faster, stronger.
and it's trying to show off its ability. My macho I'm strong. I can also do some Jackie Chan motion martial art movements. It walks away.
So this is going for you.
again you'll be able to see in the lobby.
We truly believe this is going to be the very first running humanly robot in the United States.
So it's stay tuned.
All right.
So I showed you some of our exciting robots to work.
So what's the secret of our success?
Where do you come with these ideas?
how do it develop this kind of ideas?
We have a fully autonomous vehicle that can drive in the urban environment.
We want half a million dollars in DARPA urban challenge.
We also have the rules very first vehicle that can be driven by the blind.
called the blind driver challenge. Very exciting.
and many, many other robots project I want to talk about.
These are just awards that won in 2007 fall from Robys' competition as those kind of things.
So really have five secrets.
First is where do we get inspiration where do we get inspiration
spark of imagination.
true story, my personal story.
at night when I go to bed three four a.m. in the morning I lie down close my eyes and I see these lines and circles and different shapes floating around
and they assemble and deform this kind of mechanisms.
And I'm like, oh, this is cool. So right next to my bed, I keep a notebook, a journal with a special pen that has a light on it, LED light, because I don't want to turn on the light and wake up my wife.
So why I see this? I scribble everything down, draw things, and I go to bed.
Every day in the morning, the first thing I do before my first cup of coffee before my brush my teeth, I opened my notebook.
Many times just empty, sometimes they have something there.
If something there is something to jump.
but most of the time I can't even read my handwriting.
It's all for you in the morning. What do you expect, right?
So I need to decipher what I wrote.
But sometimes I see this ingenious idea in there and I have this ira commo
I directly run to my home office and in my computer, I type into ideas and sketch things out and I keep a database of ideas.
So when we have these call for proposals, I try to find the match between my potential ideas and the problem
If doesn't match, we got a research proposal. Get the research funding in and that's how we start our research programs.
But just as far as imagination is not good enough.
How do we develop these kind of ideas?
I don't know, Robx and Mechanism Laboratory. We have this fantastic brainstorming session.
So we gather around, we discuss about problems and solutions problems and talk about it.
But we before we start we set this golden rule.
The rule is nobody criticizes anybody's ideas.
Nobody criticizes any opinion.
This is important because many times students, they fear, they feel uncomfortable how other might think about their opinions and thoughts.
So once you do this, it is amazing how the students open up.
they have this wacky, cool, crazy brilliant ideas and the whole room is just electrified with creative energy.
And this is how we do up our ideas.
Well, we're running out of time.
One more thing I want to talk about is, you know, just a spark of idea and development is not good enough.
There was a great Ted moment. I think was Sir Ken Robinson was it?
He gave a talk about how education and school kills creativity.
Well actually there's two sides to this story.
So there's only so much one can do with just ingenious ideas and creativity and good engineering intuitions.
If you want to go beyond the tinkering, if you want to go beyond the hobbyist robotics, and really tackle the grand challenges of robotics through rigorous research, we need more than that.
This is where school comes in.
Batman, fighting against bad guys, he has this utility belt, he has this grappling hook, has all the good of gadgets.
For us, rowdices, engineers on scientists, these tools, these are the courses and classes you're taking class.
Math, differential equations.
I have linear algebra. Science, physics, even nowadays chemistry and biology as you've seen.
These are all the tools that we need.
So the more tools you have for Batman, more effective in finding the bad guys, for us, more tools to attack these kind of big problems.
So education is very important.
Also, it's not about that only about that.
We all stuff to work really, really hard.
So I always tell my students, work smart, then work hard. This picture at the back, this is a 3am in the morning.
I guarantee you if you come to our lab before AM, we have students working there, not because I tell them to, because we are having too much fun.
which leads to the last topic. Do not forget to have fun.
That's really the secret of our success. We haven't too much fun.
I truly believe that highest priority comes in when you're having fun and that's what we're doing.
And there you go!
Thank you so much.
Now I wanted to start with the question, when was the last time you were called childish?
For kids like me being called childish can be a frequent occurrence.
Every time we make irrational demands, exhibit your responsible behavior or display any other signs of being normal American citizens, we are called childish.
What's really bothers me?
After all, take a look at these events. Imperialism and colonization, World Wars, George W.
the bush
ask yourself who's responsible.
I don't!
What if kids don't
and Frank touched millions with their powerful account of the Holocaust.
Ruby Bridges helped Ensegregation in the United States.
And most recently, Charlie Simpson helped to raise 120,000 pounds for Haiti on his little bike.
So as you can see, Evidence by such examples, age has absolutely nothing to do with it.
The traits the word childish addresses are seen so often in adults that we should abolish this age discriminatory word when it comes to criticizing behavior associated with irresponsible ability and irrational thinking.
Then again, who's to say that certain types of irrational thinking aren't exactly what the world needs?
Maybe you've had grand plans before, but stop yourself thinking, that's impossible or that costs too much. That won't benefit me. For better or worse, sweet kids aren't hampered as much when it comes to things about reasons why not to do things.
Kids can be full of inspiring aspirations and hopeful thinking, like my wish that knowing when hungry or that everything or a free kind of utopia.
How many of you still dream like that and believe in the possibilities?
Sometimes, a knowledge of history and the past failures of utopian ideals can be a burden. Because you know that if everything were free, then the food stocks had become depleted and scarce and leaps chaos.
On the other hand, we kids still dream about perfection.
And that's a good thing, because in order to make anything a reality, you have to dream about it first.
In many ways, our adaptsee to imagine helps push the boundaries of possibility.
For instance, the Museum of Glass and the Kamal Washington, my home state you who Washington.
The resident artist said they got some of their best ideas from the program because kids don't think about the limitations of how hard it can be to blow glass in the certain shapes they just think of good ideas.
Now, when you think of glass, you might think of colorful, shuhuli designs, or maybe Italian vases, but kids' challenge glass artists to go beyond that into the realm of broken-hearted snakes and bacon boys who you can see as meat vision.
Now, our inherent wisdom doesn't have to be in sight as knowledge.
Kids already do a lot of learning from adults and we have a lot to share.
I think that adults should start learning from kids.
Now I do most of my speaking in front of an education crowd, teachers and students, and I like this analogy. It shouldn't just be a teacher at the head of the classroom telling students do this, do that. The students should teach their teachers.
Learning between grown-ups and kids should be reciprocal.
The reality, unfortunately, is a little different, and it has a lot to do with trust or a lack of it.
Now if you don't trust someone you place restrictions on the right.
If I doubt my older sister's ability to pay back the 10% interest, she established on her last loan, I'm going with hold her ability to get more money from me until she pays it back.
True story by the way.
The adult team have a prevenally restrictive attitude towards kids from every. Don't do that. Don't do this in the school handbook to restrictions on school internet use.
As history points out, regimes become impressive when they're fearful about keeping an in trouble.
And although adults may not be quiet at the level of totalitarian regimes, kids have no or very little saying making the rules when really the attitude should be reciprocal, meaning that the adult population should learn and take into account the wishes of the younger population.
Now, what's even worse than restriction is that adults often underestimate kids' abilities.
We love challenges, but when expectations are low, trust me, we will sing to them.
My own parents had anything but low expectations for me and my sister.
Okay, so they didn't tell us to become doctors or lawyers or anything like that. But my dad did read to us about Aristotle and pioneer germ fighters when lots of other kids were hearing the wheels on the bus go round and round. Well, we heard that one too, but pioneer germ fighters totally rules.
I love to write from the age of four and when I was six my mom bought me my own laptop equipment with Microsoft board
Thank you Bill Gates and thank you mom. I wrote over 300 short stories on that little laptop and I wanted to get published.
Instead of just scoffing at this heresy that kid one to get published or saying wait until your older, my parents were really supportive.
Many publishers were not quite so encouraging.
One large children's publisher, ironically saying they didn't work with children.
Children's publisher not work with children.
I don't know, you kind of alienating large client there.
Now one publisher, auction publishing, was willing to take that leap and trust me and listen to what I had to save.
They published my first book, Flying Fingers. You see it here.
And from there on, it's gone speaking at hundreds of schools, keynote and the thousands of educators, and finally today speaking to you.
I appreciate your attention today because to show that you truly care, you listen.
But there's a problem with this rosy picture of kids being so much better than adults.
Kids grow up and become adults just like you.
Or just like you
Really?
The goal is not to turn kids in the year kind of adult, but rather better adults than you as Ben, which may be a little challenging to consider your guys credentials.
But the way progress happens is because new generations and new era's grow and develop and become better than the previous ones.
It's the reason we're not in the dark ages anymore.
No matter your position or place in life, it is imperative to create opportunities for children so that we can grow up to blow you away.
Adults and fellow tedsters, you need to listen and learn from kids and trust us and expect more from us.
You must lend an ear today because we are the leaders of tomorrow. Which means we're going to be taking care of you and your old and senile.
No, just kidding.
Actually, um, no, really, we are going to be the next generation the one who will bring this world forward.
And in case you don't think that this really has meaning for you, remember that cloning is possible and that involves going through childhood again in which case you want to be heard just like my generation.
Now the world needs opportunities for new leaders and new ideas.
kids need opportunities to lead and succeed.
Are you ready to make the match?
because the world's problems shouldn't be the human family's heirloom.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen, at Ted we talk a lot about leadership and how to make a movement.
So let's watch a movement happen, start to finish in under three minutes and dissect some lessons from it.
First, of course you know, a leader needs the guts to stand out and be ridiculed.
What is doing it so easy to follow?
But here's his first follow-up with a crucial role. He's going to show everyone else how to follow.
Now notice that the leader embraces him as an equal.
Now it's not about the leader anymore, it's about them.
Now there he is calling to his friends.
Now if you notice that the first follower is actually an underestimated form of leadership in itself.
takes cuts to stand out like that.
The first follower is what transforms alone nut into a leader.
Now it's not a low nut. It's not tuna. Three is a crowd and the crowd is news.
To a movement must be public.
It's important to show not just the leader, but the followers because you find that new followers emulate the followers, not the leader.
Now here come two more people and immediately after three more people.
Now we've got momentum.
This is the tipping point.
Now we've got a movement.
So, notice that as more people join in, it's less risky.
So those that we're sitting on the fence before now have no reason not to.
They won't stand out. They won't be ridiculed, but they will be part of the in crowd if they hurry.
So over the next minute you'll see all of those that prefer to stick with the crowd because eventually they would be ridiculed for not joining in.
And that's how you make a movement.
But let's recap some lessons from this.
So first, if you are the type, like the shirtless dancing guy, that is standing alone, remember the importance of nurturing your first few followers as equals. So it's clearly about the movement, not you.
Okay, but we might have missed the real lesson here.
The biggest lesson if you noticed, did you catch
is that leadership is over glorified.
That yes, it was the shirtless guy was first and he'll get all the credit. But it was really the first follower that transformed the loan nut into a leader.
So as we're told that we should all be leaders that would be really ineffective.
If you really care about starting a movement, have the courage to follow and show others how to follow.
And when you find a loan nut doing something great, have the guts to be the first one to stand up and join in.
and what a perfect place to do that, a TED.
Thanks.
We are drowning in news.
Reuters alone puts out three and a half million news stories a year.
That's just one source.
My question is, how many of those stories are actually going to matter in the long run?
That's the idea behind the long news.
It's a project by the Long Nath Foundation, which was founded by Tetris, including Kevin Kelly and Stuart Brand.
And what we're looking for is news stories that lights film matter 50 or 100 or 10,000 years from now.
I mean, look at the news through that filter a lot falls by the wayside.
If you take the top stories from the AP this last year, is this going to matter in a decade?
or this.
for this.
Really?
Is this gonna matter in 50 or 100 years?
Okay, that was kind of cool.
But the top story of this past year was the economy and I'm just betting that sooner or later this particular recession is going to be old news.
So what kind of stories might make a difference for the future?
Well, let's take science.
Some day, little robots will go through our bloodstreams, fixing things.
That's some days you're ready here if you're a mouse.
Some recent stories, nanobias, aptumers with real B-venom. They're sending genes into the brain, a robot they built that can crawl through the human body.
What about resources?
How are we gonna feed 9 billion people?
We're having trouble feeding six billion today.
As we heard yesterday, there's over a billion people hungry.
Britain will start without genetically modified crops.
Bill Gates fortunately has better billion on Ag Research.
What about global politics?
The world's going to be very different when any of China sets the agenda and they may.
We're finding all kinds of ways to push back the limits of what we know.
Life may no longer need us either. A micro wakes up after 120,000 years. It seems that wither without us, life will go on.
But my pick for the top-long news to rate this past year was this one. Water found on the moon.
makes it a lot easier to put a colony up there.
And if NASA doesn't do it, China might, or somebody in this room might write a big check.
My point is this, in the long run, some new stories are more important than others.
I'm going to speak today about the relationship between science and human values.
Now, it's generally understood that questions of morality, questions of good and evil and right and wrong, are questions about which science officially has no opinion.
It's a thought that science can help us get what we value, but it can never tell us what we ought to value.
And consequently, most people, I think most people probably hear, think that science will never answer the most important questions in human life. Questions like, what is worth living for, what is worth dying for, what constitutes a good life? So I'm going to argue that this is an illusion, the separation between science and human values is an illusion, and actually quite a dangerous one at this point in human history.
Now it's often said that science cannot give us a foundation from morality and human values because science deals with facts and facts and values seem to belong to different spheres.
It's often thought that there's no description of the way the world is. They can tell us how the world ought to be.
But I think this is quite clearly untrue.
values are a certain kind of fact.
They are facts about the well-being of conscious creatures.
Why is it that we don't have ethical obligations toward rocks?
Why don't we feel compassion for rocks?
So we don't think rocks can suffer.
And if we're more concerned about our fellow primates, then we are about insects as indeed we are. It's because we think they're exposed to a greater range of potential happiness and suffering.
Now the crucial thing to notice here is that this is a factual claim. This is something we could be right or wrong about.
And if we've misconstrued the relationship between biological complexity and the possibilities of experience, well, then we could be wrong about the inner lives of insects.
There is no notion, no version of human morality and human values that I've ever come across that is not at some point reducible to a concern about conscious experience and its possible changes.
Even if you get your values from religion, even if you think that good and evil ultimately relate to conditions after death, either to an eternity of happiness with God or an eternity of suffering and hell, you are still concerned about consciousness and its changes.
And to say that such changes can persist after death is itself a factual claim, which, of course, may or may not be true.
Now, to speak about the conditions of well-being in this life for human beings, we know that there's a continuum of such facts.
We know that it's possible to live in a failed state where everything that can go wrong does go wrong. Where mothers cannot feed their children. Where strangers cannot find the basis for peaceful collaboration where people are murdered indiscriminately.
And we know that it's possible to move along this continuum toward something quite a bit more idyllic. To a place where a conference like this is even conceivable.
And we know we know that there are right and wrong answers to how to move in this space.
would add in cholera to the water, be a good idea.
probably not.
It would be a good idea for everyone to believe in the evil eye so that when bad things happen to them, they immediately blame their neighbors.
probably not.
There are truths to be known about how human communities flourish, whether or not we understand these truths.
and morality relates to these truths.
So in talking about values, we are talking about facts.
Now of course our situation in the world can be understood at many levels. So from the level of the genome on up to the level of economic systems and political arrangements.
But if we're going to talk about human well-being, we are of necessity talking about the human brain.
because we know that our experience of the world and of ourselves within it is realized in the brain. Whatever happens after death.
Even if the suicide bomber does get 72 versions in the afterlife, in this life, his personality, his rather unfortunate personality, is the product of his brain.
So the contributions of culture have culture changes us as indeed it does. It changes us by changing our brains.
And so therefore, whatever cultural variation there is in how human beings flourish, can at least, in principle, be understood in the context of a maturing science of the mind, neuroscience, psychology, et cetera.
So what I'm arguing is that values reduce to facts, to facts about the conscious experience of conscious beings.
And we can therefore visualize a space of possible changes in the experience of these beings.
And I think this is a kind of moral landscape with peaks and valleys that correspond to differences in the well-being of conscious creatures, both personal and collective.
And one thing to notice is that perhaps there are states of human well-being that we rarely access, that few people access
and these are weight our discovery.
Perhaps some of these states can be appropriately called mystical or spiritual.
Perhaps there are other states that we can't access because of how our minds are structured, but other minds possibly could access them.
Now let me be clear about what I'm not saying.
I'm not saying that science is guaranteed to map this space. We will have scientific answers to every conceivable moral question.
I don't think for instance that you will one day consult a supercomputer to learn whether you should have a second child or whether we should bomb your wrongs nuclear facilities or whether you can deduct the full cost of Ted as a business expense.
But if questions affect human well-being, then they do have answers whether or not we can find the main
and just admitting this, just admitting that there are right-and-wrong answers to the question of how humans flourish, will change the way we talk about morality, and will change our expectations of human cooperation in the future.
There are 21 states in our country where a corporal punishment in the classroom is legal, where it is legal for a teacher to beat a child with a wooden board, hard. I'm raising large bruises and blisters and even breaking the skin.
and hundreds of thousands of children incidentally are subjected to this every year.
The locations of these enlightened districts I think will fail to surprise you.
We're not talking about Connecticut.
And the rationale for this behavior is explicitly religious.
The creator of the universe himself has told us not to spare the rod less we spoil the child. This is in Proverbs 13 and 20 and I believe 23.
But we can ask the obvious question. Is it a good idea, generally speaking, to subject children, to pain, and violence, and public humiliation, as a way of encouraging healthy emotional development and good behavior?
Is there any doubt that this question has an answer and that it matters?
Now, many of you might worry that the notion of well-being is truly undefined and seemingly perpetually open to be reconstructed.
So then held therefore can there be an objective notion of well-being?
Well, consider by analogy the concept of physical health.
the concept of physical health is undefined.
as we just heard from Michael Specter, it has changed over the years.
When this statue was carved, the average life expectancy was probably 30.
Now around 80 in the developed world.
They may come a time when we metle with our genomes in such a way that not being able to run a marathon at age 200 will be considered a profound disability.
people send you donations when you're in that condition.
Notice that the fact that the concept of health is open, genuinely open for revision, does not make it vacuous.
The distinction between a healthy person and a dead one is about as clear and consequential as any we make in science.
Another thing to notice is there may be many peaks on the moral landscape. There may be equivalent ways to thrive. There may be equivalent ways to organize a human society, so it's to maximize human flourishing.
Now why wouldn't this undermine an objective morality?
Well, think of how we talk about food. I would never be tempted to argue to you that there must be one right food eat.
This clearly a range of materials that constitute healthy food.
But there's nevertheless a clear distinction between food and poison.
The fact that there are many right answers to the question, what is food? Does not tempt us to say that there are no truths to be known about human nutrition?
Many people worry that a universal morality would require moral precepts that admit of no exceptions.
So for instance, if it's really wrong to lie, it must always be wrong to lie. And if you can find an exception, well then there's no such thing as moral truth.
And why would we think this?
Consider, by analogy, the game chess.
Now if you're going to play a good chess, a principle like don't lose your queen is very good to follow.
But it clearly admits
you
their moments where losing your queen is a brilliant thing to do. Their moments where the only good thing you can do.
and yet the chest is a domain of perfect objectivity.
The fact that there are exceptions here does not change that at all.
Now this brings us to the sorts of moves that people are apt to make in the Moralsphere.
consider the great problem of women's bodies. What to do about them?
Well this is one thing you can do about them. You can cover them up.
Now, it is the position, generally speaking, of our intellectual community, that, well, we might not like this. We might think of this as wrong in Boston or Palo Alto. Who are we to say that the proud denizens of an ancient culture are wrong to force their wives and daughters to live in cloth bags?
And who are we to say even that they're wrong to beat them with lengths of steel cable or throw battery acid in their faces if they decline the privilege of being smothered in this way?
or who are we not to say this?
Who we've to pretend that we know so little about human well-being, that we have to be non-judgmental about a practice like this?
I'm not talking about voluntary wearing of a veil. And women should be able to wear whatever they want as far as I'm concerned.
But what does voluntary mean in a community where when a girl gets raped, her father's first impulse, rather often, is to murder her out of shame.
Just let that fact detonate in your brain for a minute. Your dog gets raped. And what you want to do is kill her.
What are the chances that represents a peak of human flourishing?
Now, to say this, it's not to say that we have got the perfect solution in our own society.
For instance, this is what it's like to go to a new stand almost anywhere in the civilized world.
Now granted, for many men, it may require a degree in philosophy to see something wrong with these images.
But if we are in a reflective mood, we can ask, is this the perfect expression of psychological balance with respect to variables like youth and beauty and women's bodies? Is this the optimal environment in which to raise our children?
probably not.
So perhaps there's some place on the spectrum between these two extremes that represents a place of better balance.
But the thing to notice is that there will be many more ways not to be on a peak.
Now, the irony from my perspective is that the only people who seem to generally agree with me and who think that there are right and wrong answers to moral questions are religious demagogues of one former another.
And of course, they think they have right answers to moral questions because they got these answers from their voice in a whirlwind. Okay, not because they made an intelligent analysis of the causes and condition of human and animal well-being.
In fact, the endurance of religion as a lens through which most people view moral questions has separated most moral talk from real questions of human and animal suffering.
This is why we spend our time talking about things like gay marriage and not about genocide or nuclear proliferation or poverty or any other hugely consequential issue.
But the demigods are right about one thing. We need a universal conception of human values.
Now what stands in the way of this?
One thing to note is that we do something different when talking about morale, especially secular academic scientists types.
When talking about morality, we value differences of opinion in a way that we don't in any other area of our lives.
So for instance, the Dalai Lama gets up every morning meditating on compassion. And he thinks that helping other human beings is an integral component of human happiness.
On the other hand, we have someone like Ted Bundy. Ted Bundy was very fond of abducting and raping and torturing and killing young women.
So we appear to have a genuine difference of opinion about how to profitably use one's time.
Most Western intellectuals look at this situation and say, well, there's nothing for the Dalai Lama to be really right about, really right about or for Ted Bundy to be really wrong about, that it mits of a real argument that potentially falls within the purview of science.
He likes chocolate. He likes vanilla.
There's nothing that one should be able to say to the other that should persuade the other. And I'll notice that we don't do this in science.
on the left you have Edward Whitten.
He's a string theorist.
If you ask the smartest physicist around, who's the smartest physicist around in my experience, half of them will say, Ed Whitten?
The other half will tell you they don't like the question.
So what would happen if I showed up at a physics conference and said string theory is bogus?
doesn't resonate with me.
it's not how I choose to view the universe the smallest scale.
I'm not a fan. Well, nothing would happen because I'm not a physicist. I don't understand string theory.
I'm the Ted Bundy of Spring Theory.
I wouldn't want to belong to any string theory club that would have me as a member.
But this is just the point.
Whenever we are talking about facts, certain opinions must be excluded.
But that is what it is to have a domain of expertise.
That is what it is for knowledge to count.
How have we convinced ourselves that in the moral sphere there is no such thing as moral expertise or moral talent or moral genius even?
How have we convinced ourselves that every opinion has to count?
How have we convinced ourselves that every culture has a point of view on these subjects worth considering?
It does the Taliban have a point of view on physics that is worth considering.
No. How is their ignorance? How is their ignorance any less obvious on the subject of human well-being?
It needs people like ourselves to admit that there are right-and-wrong answers to questions of human flourishing and morality relates to that domain of facts.
It is possible for individuals and even for whole cultures to care about the wrong things, which is to say it's possible for them to have beliefs and desires that reliably lead to needless human suffering.
Just admitting this will transform our discourse about morality.
We live in a world in which the boundaries between nations mean less and less and they will one day mean nothing.
We live in a world filled with destructive technology and this technology cannot be uninvented. It will always be easier to break things than to fix them.
It seems to me, therefore, it's certainly obvious that we can no more respect and tolerate vast differences in notions of human well-being than we can respect or tolerate vast differences in the notions about how disease spreads or in the safety standards of buildings and airplanes.
We simply must converge on the answers we give to the most important questions in human life.
And to do that, we have to admit that these questions have answers.
Thank you very much.
whether in this audience or people elsewhere in the world hearing some of this, they've all been doing the screaming with rage thing.
Language seems to be a really important hit.
When you talk about the veil, you're talking about women dressed in cloth bags.
أبلابت أن المسلمة والصبحة والذلاغه في المسلمة والمامانة
Some of them would say something else.
they would say, no, you know, this is a celebration of female specialists. It helps build that and it's an expression, it's a result of the fact that, and this arguably a sophisticated psychological view that may or less, is not to be trusted. I mean, can you engage in a conversation with that kind of woman, without seeing kind of cultural imperialism?
I think this is, I tried to broach this in a sentence, watching the clock ticking. But the question is what is voluntary in a context where men have certain expectations and certain, and you're guaranteed to be treated in a certain way if you don't value yourself.
So if anyone in this room wanted to wear a veil or a very funny hat or tattoo their faces, I think we should be free to voluntarily do whatever we want. But we have to be honest about the constraints that these women are placed under.
And so I think we shouldn't be so eager to always take their word for it, especially in one of the 120 degrees out and you're wearing a full berker.
Mae'n yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn y
But can you reconcile that?
I think I understood you to say that you could reconcile that with a world that doesn't become one dimensional where we will have to think the same.
paint your picture of what, you know, rolling the clock 50 years forward, 100 years forward, how you would like to think of the world, balancing moral progress with richness.
Well, I think once you admit that we are on path toward understanding our minds at the level of the brain and some important detail, then you have to admit that we are going to understand all of the positive and negative qualities of ourselves in much greater detail.
So we're going to understand positive social emotion like empathy and compassion. And we're going to understand the factors that encourage it, whether they're genetic, whether they're how people talk to one another, whether they're economic systems. And in so far as we begin to shine light on that, we are inevitably going to converge on that facts base.
So everything is not going to be up for grabs.
It's not going to be like, you know, veiling my daughter from birth is just as good as teaching her to be confident and well educated in the context of men who do desire women.
I mean, I don't think we need an NSF grant to know that Vaneling, compulsory Vaneling is a bad idea. But at a certain point, we're going to be able to scan the brands of everyone involved and actually interrogate them.
And do people love their daughter as just as much in these systems.
And I think they're right clearly writing answers to that.
Ydym yn ymthio'r yw'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r
Well, yeah, Modulo, one obvious fact that you can love someone in the context of a truly delusional belief system.
So that you can say like, because I knew my gay son was going to go to hell if he found a boyfriend. I chopped his head off.
and that was the most compassionate thing I can do. If you get all those parts aligned, yes, I think you could probably be feeling the emotion of love.
But again, then we have to talk about well-being in a larger context.
It's all of us in this together. It's not one man feeling ecstasy and then blowing himself up on a bus.
But this is a conversation I would actually love to continue for hours.
We don't have that. Maybe another time.
Thank you.
really an awesome
you
I grew up on steady diet of side-fiction.
high school, I took a bus to school an hour each way every day.
And I was always absorbed in a book, science fiction book, which took my mind to other worlds and satisfied this in a narrative form, this insatiable sense of curiosity that I had.
And that curiosity also manifested itself in the fact that whenever I was in school I was out in the woods hiking and taking samples of frogs and snakes and bugs and pond water and bringing it back looking at it under the microscope.
I was, you know, I was real science geek.
But it was all about trying to understand the world, understand the limits of possibility.
And my love of science fiction actually seemed to be mirrored in the world around me because what was happening, this was in the late 60s. We were going to the moon. We were exploring the deep oceans.
Jacques Cousteau is coming into our living rooms with his amazing specials that showed us animals and places and all, all wondrous world that we could never really have previously imagined.
So that seemed to resonate with the whole science fiction part of it.
And I was an artist.
I could draw
paint.
And I found that because there weren't video games in the saturation of CG movies and all of this imagery in the media landscape, I had to create these images in my head.
You know, we all did as kids having to read a book and through the author's description, put something on the screen, the movie screen in our heads.
And so my response to this was to paint, to draw alien creatures, alien worlds, robots, spaceships, all that stuff.
I was endlessly getting busted in math class, you know, doodling behind the textbook.
And that was the creativity had to find its outlet somehow.
And an interesting thing happened, the Jacques Cousteau shows, and actually got me very excited about the fact that there was an alien world right here on Earth.
I might not really go to an alien world on a spaceship someday. That seemed pretty darn unlikely.
But that was a world I could really go to, right here on Earth that was as rich and exotic as anything that I had imagined from reading these books.
So I decided I was going to become a scuba diver at the age of 15.
And the only problem with that was that I lived in a little village in Canada, 600 miles from the nearest ocean.
But I didn't let that dawn me.
I pestered my father until he finally found a scuba class in Buffalo, New York, right across the border from where we live.
then I actually got certified in a pool at a YMCA in the dead of winter in Buffalo, New York.
and I didn't see the ocean a real ocean for another two years until we moved to California.
Since then, you know, in the intervening 40 years, I've spent about 3,000 hours underwater and 500 hours of that was in submersibles.
And I've learned that that that depotion environment and even the shallow oceans are so rich with with amazing life that really is beyond beyond our imagination.
And nature's imagination is so boundless compared to our own, um, meager human imagination.
I still to this day stand in absolute awe of what I see when I make these dives.
And my love affair with the ocean is ongoing and just as strong as it ever was.
But when I when I chose a career as an adult, it was filmmaking.
And that seemed to be the best way to reconcile this urge I had to tell stories with my urges to create images.
and I was as a kid, constantly drying comic books in the science.
So filmmaking was the way to put pictures and stories together. And that made sense.
And of course the stories that I chose to tell were science fiction stories, Terminator aliens, and then the Abyss. And with the Abyss, I was putting together my love of underwater and diving with film makings.
So, you know, merging the two passions.
Something interesting came out of the Abyss, which was that to solve a specific narrative problem on that film, which was to create this kind of liquid water creature, we actually embraced computer-generated animation.
And this resulted in the first soft surface character CG animation that was ever in a movie.
And even though the film didn't make any money, Barry Brokey, even then I should say. I witnessed something amazing, which is that the audience, the global audience, was mesmerized by this apparent magic.
you know, it's Arthur Clark's law that any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable for magic.
They were seeing something magical.
And so that got me very excited.
I thought, wow, this is something that needs to be embraced into the cinematic art. So with Terminator 2, which was my next film, we took that much farther.
working with with ILM we created the liquid metal dude in that film.
the success on the balance on whether that effect would work.
and we created magic again and we had the same result with an audience, although we did make a little more money on that one.
So, you know, drawing a line through those two dots of experience came to this is going to be a whole new world. This is a whole new world of creativity for film artists.
So I started a company with Stan Winston, my good friend Stan Winston, who is the premier make up and creature designer at that time, and it was called Digital Domain.
And the concept of the company was that we would leapfrog past the kind of analog processes of optical printers and so on and we would go right to digital production.
And we actually did that and it gave us a competitive advantage for a while.
But we found ourselves lagging in the mid-90s in the creature and character design stuff that we had actually founded the company to do.
So I wrote this piece called Avatar, which was meant to absolutely push the envelope of visual effects of CG effects beyond with realistic human, emotive characters generated in CG and the main characters that all being CG and the world would be in CG.
And you know, the envelope pushed back and I was told by the folks at my company that we weren't going to be able to do this for a while.
So I shelved it and I made this other movie about a big ship that sinks.
And when I went to the studio, I was Romeo and Juliet on a ship. It's going to be this epic romance, passionate film. Secretly what I wanted to do was I wanted to dive to the real wreck of Titanic.
Now, studio didn't know that.
but I convinced them.
I said, I said we're going to die to the record.
We're going to film it for real.
We're using it in the opening of the film.
It'll be really important.
be a great marketing hook and I talked them into funding and expedition.
Sounds crazy.
But this goes back to that theme about, you know, your imagination creating a reality.
because they're actually created a reality where at six months later I find myself in a Russian submersible to 1.5 miles down in the North Atlantic looking at the real Titanic through a view of port.
Not a movie, not HD 4 real.
and you know it took a lot of preparation we had to build cameras and lights and all kinds of things.
But it struck me how much this dive, these deep dives, was like a space mission.
you know, where it was highly technical and required enormous planning.
you get in this capsule, you go down to this dark hostile environment where there's no hope of rescue if you can't get back by yourself.
And, you know, I thought, wow.
I'm living in a science fiction movie.
This is really cool. And so I really got bitten by the bug of depotion exploration.
of course the curiosity of science component of it. It was everything.
It was adventure. It was curiosity, it was imagination.
and it was an experience that Hollywood couldn't give me.
because I can imagine a creature and we can create a visual effect for it.
But I couldn't imagine what I was seeing out that window.
As we did some of our subsequent expeditions, I was seeing creatures that hide your thermal vents and sometimes things that I had never seen before, sometimes things that no one had seen before that actually were not described by science at the time that we saw them and image them.
So I was completely smitten by this and had to do more.
And so I actually made a kind of curious decision.
And after the success of Titanic, I said, okay, I'm going to park my day job as a Hollywood movie maker, and I'm going to go be a full-time explorer for a while. And so, we started planning these expeditions.
and we wound up going to the Bismarck and exploring it with robotic vehicles.
We went back to the Titanic wreck.
We took little bots that we had created that's spooled a fiber optic.
and the idea was to go in and do an interior survey of that ship, which had never been done
Nobody ever looked inside the wreck
it and have the means to do it. So we created technology to do it.
So, you know, here I am now on the deck of Titanic sitting in a submersible and looking out at planks that look much like this where I knew that the band had played.
And I'm flying a little robotic vehicle through the corridor of the ship.
When I say, I'm operating at my mind is in the vehicle.
I felt like I was physically present inside the shipwreck of Titanic.
And it was the most surreal kind of deja vu experience I've ever had because I would know before I turned a corner what was going to be there before the lights of the vehicle actually revealed it because I had walked the set for months when we were making the movie.
and the set was based as an exact replica on the blueprint of the ship.
So it was this absolutely remarkable experience.
And it really made me realize that the telepresence experience that you actually can have these robotic avatars, then your consciousness is injected into the vehicle, into this other form of existence.
It was really, really quite profound.
And maybe a little bit of a glimpse to what might be happening, some decades out as we start to have cyborg bodies for exploration or for other means. And many sort of post human futures that I can imagine as a science fiction fan.
So having done these expeditions and really beginning to appreciate what was down there, such as at the depotion vents where we had these amazing, amazing animals. They're basically aliens right here on Earth.
they live in an environment of chemocynthesis.
They don't survive on sunlight based system the way we do.
And so you're seeing animals that are living next to a 500-degree centigrade water plumes that
that you think they can't possibly exist.
At the same time, I was getting very interested in space science as well. Again, it's the science fiction influence as a kid.
And I wound up getting involved with the space community, really involved with NASA, sitting on the NASA Advisory Board, planning actual space missions going to Russia, going through the pre-cosmot biomedical protocols and all these sorts of things to actually go and fly to the International Space Station with our 3D camera systems.
and this was fascinating.
but what I wanted to do was bring space scientists with us into the deep.
and taking them down so that they had access, astrobiologists, planetary scientists, people who were interested in these extreme of file environments, taking them down to the events and letting them see and take samples and test instruments and so on.
So here we were making documentary films, but actually doing science and actually doing space science.
I completely closed the loop between being the science fiction fan, you know, as a kid, and doing this stuff for real.
And along the way, in this journey of discovery, I learned a lot.
I learned a lot about science.
but I also learned a lot about leadership.
And you think directors got to be a leader, leader of Captain the ship, all that sort of thing.
I didn't really learn about leadership until I did these expeditions.
because I had to at a certain point say, what am I doing out here?
Why am I doing this?
What do I get out of it? We don't make money at these damn shows.
We barely break even.
There's no fame in it.
people sort of think I went away between Titanic and Avatar and was buffing my nails someplace, you know, sitting at the beach.
made all these films made all these documentary films that you know for a very limited audience.
no fame, no glory, no money.
What are you doing?
You're doing it for the task itself, for the challenge, and the ocean is the most challenging environment there is, for the thrill of discovery. And for that strange bond that happens, when a small group of people form a tightly-knit team,
as we would do these things with 10, 12 people working for years at a time. Sometimes that's C for two, three months at a time.
And in that bond, you realize that the most important thing is the respect that you have for them and that they have for you, that you've done a task that you can't explain to someone else.
When you come back to the shore and you say, we had to do this and the fiber optic and the attenuation and that all the technology of it and the difficulty of the human performance aspects of working at sea, you can't explain it to people.
It's that thing that maybe cops have or people in combat that have gone through something together and they know they can never explain it.
Create some bond, create some bond of respect.
So when I came back to make my next movie, which was Avatar, I tried to apply that same principle of leadership, which is that you respect your team and you earn their respect in return.
And it really changed the dynamic.
So here I was again with a small team and you know an uncharted territory doing avatar coming up with new technology that didn't exist before.
tremendously exciting.
tremendously challenging.
and we became a family over a four and a half year period.
completely changed how I do movies.
So people have commented on how, you brought back the ocean organisms and put them on the planet of Pandora. To me, it was more of a fundamental way of doing business, the process itself that changed as a result of that.
So what can we synthesize out of all this?
You know, what's the lesson's learn?
Well, I think number one is curiosity.
It's the most powerful thing you own.
Imagination is a force that can actually manifest a reality.
And the respect of your team is more important than all the laurels in the world.
I have young filmmakers come up to me and say, give me some advice for doing this. And I say, don't put limitations on yourself.
Other people will do that for you. Don't do it to yourself. Don't bet against yourself and take risks. NASA has this phrase that they like. Failure is not an option. But failure has to be an option. In art and in exploration because it's a leap of faith.
and no important endeavor that required innovation was done without risk.
you have to be willing to take those risks.
So that's the thought I would leave you with. Is it in whatever you're doing? Failure is an option, but fear is not.
Thank you.
So what I'm going to do is just give you the latest episode of India's, maybe the world's longest running sober opera, which is cricket.
and may a drone forever because it gives people like me a living.
It's got everything that you'd want at normal so far, but it's got love, joy, happiness, sadness, tears, laughter, lots of deceit, intrigue.
and like all good soaps, it jumps 20 years when the audience interest changes.
And that's exactly what cricket has done.
It's jumped 20 years into 20 over game.
And that's what I'm going to talk about. How a small change leads to a very big revolution.
But we want all the ways like that.
Pretty wasn't always this speed driven generation's game.
There's a time when you play it cricket, you play timeless test matches. When you play it on till the game got over.
And this is game in March 1939 that started on the third of March and ended on the 14th of March.
And it only ended because the English crickets had to go from Durban to Cape Town, which is a two-hour train journey to catch the ship that left on the 17th because the next ship wasn't around for a long time.
So the match is ended in between.
And while the English batsman said, you know what?
another half an hour and we would have won. Another half an hour after 12 days.
number two Sundays in between.
But of course, sand is a church days. So you don't play on sand days.
one day it rains so they all sat around making friends with each other.
But this reason why India fell in love with cricket because we had about the same pace of life.
The Mahabharat was like that as well, wasn't it?
you fought by day, then it was sunset. So everyone went back home.
and then you worked out your strategy and you came and fought the next end and you went back home again.
The only difference between the Mahabharata and the cricket was that in cricket everybody was alive to come back and fight the next day.
Princess patronized the game, not because they loved the game, but because it was a means of ingratiating themselves to the British rulers.
But this is one other reason why India fell in love with cricket, which is all you needed was a plank of wood and a rubber ball and any number of people could play it anywhere.
Take a look. You could play it in the dump with some rocks over there. You could play it in little alley. You couldn't hit square anyway because the bat hit the wall. Don't forget the air conditioning and the cable wires.
You could play it on the banks of the Ganga. There's a cleanest the Ganga has been for a long time.
I could play many games in one small patch of land even if we didn't know which game you were actually in.
as you can see, you can play anywhere.
But slowly the game moved on, you know? Finally.
You don't always have five days.
So we moved on and we started playing 50 over cricket.
And then, and you know, it's accident took place.
In Indian sport, we don't make things happen. Accidents happen and we're in the right place at the right time.
and we won this World Cup in 1983.
And suddenly we fell in love with the 50-over game and we played it virtually every day.
Those more 50 was triggered than anywhere.
But there's another big date.
1983 was when we won the World Cup.
found a finance minister and a prime minister willing to let the world look at India rather than be this great country of intrigue and mystery and disclosed country.
and so we allowed multinationals into India.
customs duties, reduced import duties and we got all the multi-nationals coming in with multi-national budgets who looked at per capita income and got very excited about the possibilities in India and were looking for a vehicle to reach every Indian.
And there are only two vehicles in India, one real, one scripted.
The scripted one is what you see in the movies, the real one was triggered.
And so one of my friends sitting right here in front of me, Ravi Dharival from Pepsi decided he's going to take it all over the world.
and Pepsi was this big revolution because they started taking cricket all over.
And so, cricket started becoming big. Cricket started bringing riches in.
television started covering cricket
for a long time television said we won't cover cricket unless you pay us to cover it. Then it said okay the next try to solve for $55 million.
the next hydro soul for $612 million. So it's a bit of a curve that.
And then another big accident happened in our cricket.
England invented 20 overs cricket and said the world must play 20 overs cricket just as England invented cricket and made the rest of the world play it.
Thank you all for the.
And so, Inde had to go and pay the T20 World Cup, you see?
In the din want to play the teach when we work up
but we're forced to play by an 8-1 margin.
and then something very dramatic happened.
got to the final and then this moment that will remain enshrined forever for everybody to take a
Thanks for watching.
2020, 25.
India the one champion
you
What a game we are!
Yeah.
got it right in the end but Miss Bowlock what up
a massive massive success India the world dating champion
Suddenly India discovered the power of 20 over
The accident of course there was the batsman thought the bono is bullying fast.
They had won fast the ball would have gone way, it was been to go, but it didn't go.
And we certainly discovered that we could be good at this game.
And what it also did was it led to certain pride in the fact that India could be the best in the world.
was at a time when investment was coming in in there with feeling a little more confident about itself.
And so there was a feeling that this great pride in what we can do.
And thankfully for all of us, the English are very good at inventing things. And the gracious people that they are, they let the world become very good at it.
And so England invented the 20 cricket and allowed India to hide Jack
It was not like re-engineering that we do in medicine. We just took it straight away as is.
And so we launch our own T20 leagues.
6 weeks city versus city
was a new thing for us.
only ever supported a country. The only two areas in which India was very proud about the country representing itself on the field.
one is war, the indian army which you don't like to happen very often.
دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا دیا
Now suddenly we have to support city leagues.
But the people getting into these city leagues, what people who take their cues from the West.
En werken ze home vliegd.
and they said, right, we'll build some glitzzy leagues here in India. But was India ready for it?
because cricket for a long time in India was always organised.
It was never promoted. It was never sold. It was organized.
And look what they did with our beautiful, nice, simple family game.
Oğlu bu sardın. Yadere yapayım.
and opening ceremony to match every other
This was an India that was buying Coras.
this is an India that is buying Jaguar.
This is an India that is adding more mobile phones per month than New Zealand's population twice over.
So it was a different India.
But it was also a slightly more orthodox India that was very happy to be modern but didn't want to say that to people.
and so they were accustomed to cheer leaders arrived.
Everyone secretly watched them, but everyone claimed not to.
The new owners of Indian cricket were not the old princes.
They were not bureaucrats who were forced into sport because they didn't actually love it. These were people who ran serious companies.
And so they started promoting cricket big time, started promoting clubs big time
and they've started promoting them with huge money behind it.
I mean the IPL had 2.3 billion dollars before a ball was bold. $1.6 billion for television revenue over 10 years and another $70 million plus from all these franchises that were putting in money.
and then they had to appeal to their cities but they had to do it like the West, right?
because we were setting up leagues.
But what they were very good at doing was making it very localized.
So just to give you an example of how they did it, not Manchester United style promotion but very Mumbai style promotions.
Take a look.
..hohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohoho We're up alive! Of course, a lot of people said, maybe the dance better than they please. But that's alright.
What it did also was it changed the way we looked at Cregard.
all along if you wanted a young cricketer you picked him up in the bylayance of your own little locality or own city and you were very proud of the system that produced those cricketers.
Now all of a sudden if you're a bolder shot, if Mumbai were a bolder shot for example, they didn't go to Kalwadivi or Shivaji Park or somewhere to source him. They could go to Trinidad.
This was the new India, wasn't it?
This is the new world where you can source from anywhere as long as you get the best product or the best phrase.
and all of a sudden Indians sported a vehicle to the reality that you can source the best product for the best price anywhere in the world.
So the Mumbai Indians flew in during Bravo from Trinidad and Tobago overnight.
And when he had to go back to represent the West Indies, they asked him, when do you have to reach? He said, I have to be there by a certain time. So I have to leave today. And he said, no, no.
It's not about when you have to leave. It's about when you have to reach there. And so he said, I've got to reach on date X and they said, fine, you play date X minus 1. So he played in Hyderabad when straight after the game went from the stadium to Hyderabad airport, sat in a private corporate jet, first refueling in Portugal, second refueling in Brazil. He was in West Indies in time.
Never would India have thought on this scale before.
Never would in their said, I want a player to play one game for me and I will use a corporate jet to send them all the way back to Kingston Jamaica. To play a game. And I just thought to myself, wow, we've arrived somewhere in the world, you know?
I've somewhere
thinking big. But what this also did was it started madding the two most important things in Indian cricket, which is cricket and the movies in Indian entertainment.
Let's click it in the movies.
came together because people in the movies now started owning clubs.
And so, people started going to the cricket to watch free dissenter.
inside going to the cricket to watch charo Khan
and something very interesting happened.
We started getting song and dance in Indian cricket.
And so it started resembling the Indian movies more and more.
And of course if you're in pretty zinters team, as you will see on the clip that follows, if you did well, you got a hug from pretty zinters.
So that was the ultimate reason to do well.
Take a look.
And then of course they were shark playing the Kolkata crowd
We've all seen matches in Kolkata. We've never seen anything like this. Sharruk with the Bengali song, getting the audiences all worked up for Kolkata, not for India.
Take a look at this.
An Indian film star, Hugginger Pakistan ikricket because at one in Kolkata.
Can you imagine?
and you know what the Pakistanis cricket is saying?
I'm so happy that you hear because I think we can show that we can work together.
and be friends.
So thank you very much for coming. All of you from Pakistan.
The Green
Ada kata. Because we had this auction, you see.
How do you fix a price for a player?
And so the auction that followed literally had people saying, bang.
so many million dollars for so-and-so player, there it is.
3000多
you
the world.
Suddenly a game which earned its player's 50 rupees a day. So 250 rupees for a test match. But if you finish in 4 days you only got 200.
The best Indian players who played every test match every one day international, the top of the line player Central contracts are $220,000 in a whole year.
Now they're getting 500,000 for six days work.
Then Andrew Flintoff came by from England. He got a $1.5 million and he went back and said, four weeks, I'm earning more than Frank Lampard and Stephen Gerard and I'm earning more than the footballers. Wow. And where was he earning it from?
from the little club in India.
Could you have imagined that David come?
$1.5 million for six weeks.
But that's not bad, isn't it?
So, as at $2.3 billion before the first ball was bold,
What Indivis doing there was benchmarking itself against the best in the world and it became a huge brand?
Lalit Modi was on the cover of Business Today.
IPL began the biggest brand in India and because of our elections had to be moved to South Africa and we had to start the tournament in three weeks.
move a whole tournament to South Africa in three weeks.
But we did it.
Do you know why?
because no country in the world works as slowly as we do it three weeks before an event and nobody works as fast as we do in the last three weeks.
But also make cricket the only sport in India, which is a pity, but in India every other sport pushes cricket to become big, which is a better tragedy of our times.
Now, just last minute before I go, there's a couple of side effects of all this.
For a long time, India was this country of poverty, dust, beggars, snake charmers, fields, daily belly people wrote daily belly stories before they came.
all of a sudden, India was this land of opportunity.
Cricket us all over the world, so you know we love India.
We'd love to play in India. And that felt good, you know?
We said the dollar's quite powerful, actually. Can you imagine you've got the dollar on view and there's no Delhi Berlin in there anymore?
There's no field, there's no beggars, all the snake, charmers, have vanished, everybody's gone.
This tells you how the capitalist world rules.
Right, so finally, an English game that India you served a little bit, but T20 is going to be the next missionary in the world.
If you want to take the game around the world, it's got to be the shortest form of the game.
You can't take a timeless test to China and say, 14 days with no result in the end.
So that's what T20 is doing.
Hopefully it'll make everyone richer. Hopefully it'll make the game bigger. And hopefully it'll give cricket commentators more time in the business.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
I think I'll start out and just talk a little bit about what exactly autism is.
Autism is a very big continuum that goes from very severe. The child remains nonverbal all the way up to brilliant scientists and engineers.
and I actually feel at home here because there's a lot of autism genetics here.
when does nerd turn into an asperger, which is just mild autism?
I mean Einstein and Mozart and Tesla would all be probably diagnosed as an autistic spectrum today.
And one of the things that really is going to concern me is getting these kids to be the ones that are going to invent the next energy things. Now that Bill Gates talked about this morning.
Okay, now if you want to understand autism animals
And I want to talk to you about different ways of thinking.
You have to get away from verbal language.
I think in pictures.
I don't think in language.
Now the thing about the autistic mind is it attends to detail.
This is a test where you have to pick out the big letters or pick out the little letters and the autistic mind picks out the little letters more quickly.
And the thing is, the normal brain ignores the details.
while if you're building up bridge details are pretty important because I'm fall down if you ignore the details.
And one of my big concerns is a lot of policy things today is things are getting too abstract.
people are getting away from doing hands-on stuff.
I'm really concerned that a lot of the schools have taken out the hands-on classes because aren't in classes like that. Those are the classes where I excelled.
in my work with cattle. I noticed a lot of little things that most people don't notice would make the cattle block.
For example, this flag waving right in front of veterinary facility.
This feed yard was going to tear down their whole veterinary facility. All they needed to do was move the fly.
Rapid movement contrast.
in the early 70s when I started I got right down in the shoots to see what cattle were seeing.
He thought that was crazy.
a coat on a fence and make them buck, shadows would make them buck, a hose on the floor. People weren't noticing these things.
chain hanging down.
And that's Sean very, very nicely in the movie.
In fact, I loved the movie how they duplicated all my projects.
That's the geek side.
My drawings got the star in the movie too.
And actually it's called temple grand and not thinking in pictures. So what is thinking in pictures?
It's literally movies in your head.
by mind works like Google for images.
I was a young kid. I didn't know what thinking was different.
I thought everybody thought in pictures.
And then when I did my book thinking in pictures, I started interviewing people about how they think.
And I was shocked to find out that Mike thinking was quite different.
Like if I say, think about a church people, most people get this sort of generalized generic one.
Now maybe that's not true in this room, but it's going to be true. I know a lot of different places.
I see only specific pictures.
They flash up into my memory just like Google for pictures.
And in the movie, they've got a great scene in there where the word shoe is said in a whole bunch of 50s and 60s shoes pop into my imagination.
Okay, there's my childhood church that's specific.
There's some more for columns.
Okay, how about famous ones?
And they just kind of come up, kind of like this.
just really quickly like Google for pictures.
and they come up one at a time and then I think well okay well maybe we can have a snow or we can have a thunderstorm I can hold it there and turn them into videos.
Now visual thinking was a tremendous asset in my work designing cattle handling facilities.
and I've worked really hard on improving on how cattle treated at slaughter plant.
I'm not going to go in any gucky slaughter slides.
I've got that stuff up on YouTube if you want to look at it.
But one of the things that I was able to do in my design work is I could actually test run a piece of equipment in my mind, just like a virtual reality computer system.
And this is an aerial view of a recreation of one of my projects that was used in the movie.
And that was just so super cool.
And there were a lot of kind of ask burger types and I had an autism types working out there on the movie set too.
But one of the things that really worries me is where's the younger version of those kids going today?
They're not ending up in Silicon Valley where they belong.
And the way I sold livestock jobs is a show lot of my drawings I showed off pictures of thanks.
Another thing that helped me is a little kid is boy and a 50s he would talk manners.
You will taught you can't pull the merchandise off of shelves in a store and throw it around.
When kids get to be in third to fourth grade, you might see that this kid's going to be a visual thinker, drawing in perspective.
Now I want to emphasize that not every autistic kid is going to be a visual thinker.
Now, I did the head of the spray scan done several years ago, and I used to joke around about having a gigantic internet trunk line going deep into my visual cortex.
This is 10-SERT imaging.
And my great big internet trunk line is twice as big as the controls.
the red lines there are me and the blue lines are the sex and age matched control.
And there I got a gigantic one and a control over there. The blue one has got a really small one.
And some of the research now is showing that people on the spectrum actually think with primary visual cortex.
Now the thing is the visual thinkers just one kind of mind.
You see, the artistic mind tends to be a specialist mind. Good at one thing, bad, something else.
And where I was bad was algebra.
and I was never allowed to take geometry or trig.
gigantic mistake.
I'm finding a lot of kids need to skip algebra, go write to geometry and trick.
Now another kind of mind is the pattern thinker.
more abstract.
These are engineers, your computer programers.
This is pattern thinking.
That praying man is made from a single sheet of paper. No scratch tape, no cuts.
and there the background is the pattern for folding it.
Here are the types of thinking. Photo-relistic visual thinkers like me. Pattern thinkers, music and math minds.
Some of these oftentimes have problems with reading.
You also will see these kind of problems with them. Kids that are dyslexic.
You'll see these different kinds of minds.
And then there's a verbal mind. They know every fact about everything.
Now another thing is the sensory issues.
I was really concerned about having a weirdest gadget on my face.
And I came in half an hour beforehand so I could have it put on and kind of get used to it and they got it bent so it's not hitting my chin.
But since recent issues,
Some kids are bothered by fluorescent lights. Others have problems with sound sensitivity.
You know, it is going to be very important.
Now, visual thinking gave me a whole lot of insight into the animal mind.
because think about it. An animal to sensory-based thinker, not verbal. Thinks in pictures. Thinks in sounds. Thinks in smells.
Think about how much information there is there on the local fire hydrant.
He knows who's been there. One day what they are.
Are they friend or
Is there anybody here in Go Mate with?
There's a ton of information on that fire hydrant.
It's all very detailed information.
and look at these kind of details, give me a lot of insight into animals.
Now, the animal mind and also my mind puts sensory-based information into categories.
Man on a horse and a man on a ground that is viewed as to totally different things.
You can have a horse that's been abused by a rider.
they'll be absolutely fine with the veterinarian and with the horseshoe or but you can't ride.
You have another horse where maybe they horse sure beat them up and he'll be terrible for anything on the ground with a veterinarian but a person can ride him.
cattle of the same way.
Man on a horse, a man on foot, there are two different things.
You see the different picture.
See, I want you to think about just how specific this is.
Now, this ability to put information into catacories, I find a lot of people are not very good at this.
when I'm out trouble shooting equipment or problems with something in a plan. They don't see me out of the figure out do I have a training people issue
or do I have something wrong with the equipment? Now, there's categorized equipment problem from a people problem.
I find a lot of people have difficulty doing that.
Now let's say it to your mouth is an equipment problem.
is it a minor problem with something simple like and fix?
or is a whole design of the system raw?
People have a hard time figuring that out.
Let's just look at something like, you know, solving problems with, you know, making airlines safer.
Yeah, I'm a million mile flyer.
I do lots and lots of flying. And like if I was at the FFA, what would I be doing a lot of direct observation of?
it would be their airplane tails.
You know, five fatal wrecks in the last 20 years. Tell either came off or co-sturing stuff inside the tail broke in some way.
It's tails, pure and simple.
And when the pilots walk around the plane, guess what?
They can't see that stuff inside the tail.
Now as I think about that, I'm pulling up all of that, you know, specific information.
It's specific.
See my thinking spot him up.
I take all the little pieces and I put the pieces together like a puzzle.
Now here's a horse that was definitely afraid of black cowboy hats.
You've been abused by somebody with a black cowboy hat.
White cow boy hats, that was absolutely fine.
Now the thing is, the world is gonna need all of the different kinds of minds to work together.
We've got to work on developing all these different kinds of minds.
And one of the things that's driving me really crazy is I travel around and I do autism meetings, is I'm seeing a lot of smart geeky nerdy kids. And they just aren't very social. And nobody's working on developing their interest in something like science.
This brings up the whole thing on my science teacher.
My science teacher has shown absolutely beautifully in the movie.
as a goofball student when I was the high school.
I just didn't care at all about studying until I had a Mr. Carlox science class.
He was now Dr. Carlok in the movie.
He got me challenged to figure out optical illusion room.
This brings up the whole thing. I'm gonna show kids interesting stuff.
You know, one of the things that I think maybe Ted ought to do is tell all the schools about all the great lectures that are on Ted. There's all kinds of great stuff on the internet to get these kids turned on.
Because I'm saying a lot of these geeky nerdy kids and the teachers out in the Midwest and all of the parts of the country when you get away from these tech areas, they don't know what to do with these kids.
and they're not going down the right path.
The thing is, you can make a mind to be more of a thinking and cognitive mind or a mind can be wired to be more social.
And what some of the research now is shown autism is that maybe extra wiring back here and then really brilliant mine. And we lose a few social circuits here.
It's kind of a trade-off between thinking and social.
And then you can get into the point where it's so severe, you're going to have a person that's going to be nonverbal.
In a normal human mind, language covers up the visual thinking we share with ants.
This is the work of Dr. Bruce Miller.
He studied Alzheimer's patients that frontal temporal lobe dementia.
and the dementia ate out the language parts of the brain.
And then this artwork came out of somebody that used to install stereo in cars.
Now, Van Gogh doesn't know anything about physics, but I think it's very interesting that there was some work done to show that this eddy pattern in this painting followed a statistical model of turbulence. It brings up the whole interesting idea of maybe some of this mathematical patterns is in our own head.
and the Wolfram stuff I was taking notes on right down all the search words I could use because I think that's going to go on in my autism lectures.
with got a show these kids interesting stuff.
and they've taken out the auto shop class and the draft in class in the art class.
I mean, art was my best subject in school.
We have got to think about all these different kinds of minds and we've got to absolutely work with these kind of minds because we absolutely are going to need these kind of people in the future.
And let's talk about jobs.
Okay, my science teacher got me studying because I was a goofball that didn't want to study.
But you know what?
I was getting work experience.
I'm seeing too many of these smart kids that haven't learned basic things like how to be on time. I was taught that when I was eight years old.
How to have table manners at Granny's a Sunday party?
I was taught that when I was very, very young.
And when I was 13, I had a job at a dress makers shop selling clothes.
I did internships in college, I did, I was building things, and I also had to learn how to do assignments.
You know, all I want to do is draw pictures. The horses went out as little.
Mother said, well, let's do a picture of something else. They gotta learn how to do something else.
Let's say the kids fixated on Legos.
Let's get them working on building different things.
The thing about the artistic mind is that tends to be friccated.
Like if the kid loves race cars, let's use race cars for math.
Let's figure out how long it takes a race car to go with certain distance.
In other words, use that fixation in order to motivate that kid. That's one of the things we need to do.
and really get fed up on the teachers, especially when you get away from the spot of the country, they don't know what to do with these smart kids.
It just drives me crazy.
What convisual thinkers do when they grow up?
they can do graphic design, all kinds of stuff with computers, photography, industrial design.
the pattern thinkers, they're the ones that are going to be mathematicians, your software engineers, your computer programmers, all of those kinds of jobs.
And then you've got the word mines. They make great journalists. And they're also make really, really good stage actors.
because the thing about being autistic is I had to learn social skills like being in a play.
You're just kind of
just have to learn it.
And we need to be working with these students.
This brings up mentors.
You know, my science teacher was not an accredited teacher.
He was a NASA Space scientist.
some states now are getting it to where we have a degree in biology or degree in chemistry. You can come into the school and teach biology or chemistry.
We need to be doing that.
because what I'm observing is the good teachers for a lot of these kids are out in the community colleges.
But we need to be getting some of these good teachers into the high schools.
Another thing that can be very, very, very, very successful is there's a lot of people that may have retired from working in the software industry and they can teach your kid.
And it doesn't matter if what they teach them is old. Because what you're doing is you're lighting the spark.
The get-knocked, turned off.
and you get them turned on, then you'll learn all the new stuff.
mentors are just essential.
I can't emphasize enough what my science teacher did for me.
and we've got to mentor them, hire them.
And if you bring them in for internships and your companies, the thing about the autism Ask for Geri Kaimai, you got to give them a specific task.
don't just say design new software. You got to tell them something a lot more specific. Well, we're designing software for a phone and it has to do some specific thing and it can only use so much memory. That's kind of specificity you need.
Well, let's see end of my talk.
and I just want to thank everybody for coming.
It was great to be here.
Okay.
You know, you once wrote, um, I like this quote, if by some magic, autism had been eradicated from the face of the earth, then men would still be socializing in front of a wood fire at the entrance to a cave.
As a Asperger guy and if you were to get rid of all the autism genetics that they know more silicon valley and the energy crisis would not be solved.
Well, first of all, we got to look at age.
If you have a two, three, a four-year-old, no speech, no social interaction, I can't emphasize enough. Don't wait.
in a at least 20 hours a week of one to one teaching.
Well, thing as autism comes in different degrees.
about half-put the people on the spectrum that are not going to learn a talk and they're not going to be working.
That would not be a reasonable thing for them to do.
But then you got these smart geeky kids, you know, touch of autism. And that's where you got to get them turned on with doing interesting things.
I got social interaction through shared interests. I wrote horses with other kids. I made model rockets with other kids. Did electronics lay up without the kids.
in the 60s it was gluing on Mirrors on the on the rubber membrane on speaker to make a light show.
that was like we can serve that super
Mae'n rhaith yn ymthio'r hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hynny'n hy
Well, let me tell you that child will be loyal and if he has to spurning down they're going to get you out of it.
Wow.
So most people, if you ask them what are they most passionate about, they'd say things like my kids or my lover or what are you most passionate about?
I'm passionate about the things I do, I've got to make the world a better place.
So now I have a mother of an autistic child, say, my kid went to college because of your book or something or wanting a lectures, that makes me happy.
you know, live. They just slaughter plants I've worked with them in the 80s. They were absolutely awful.
I developed a really simple scoring system for slaughter plants where you just measure outcomes. How can I kind of felt down?
how many cattle that pulled with the prodder?
how many cattle and moan their heads off.
And very, very simple.
you directly observe a few simple things.
It's worked really well.
I get satisfaction out of seeing stuff that makes real change in the real world.
We need a lot more of that and a lot less abstract stuff.
I'm going to tell you.
The reason why I got really excited and I read about that, it's contains knowledge.
It's libraries.
And to me, knowledge is something that is extremely valuable.
So maybe over 10 years ago now our library got flooded
this is for the internet got really big
I was really upset about all the putts being wrecked because it was knowledge being destroyed.
and server farms or data centers are great libraries of knowledge.
Temple, can I just say it's an absolute delight to have you at TED?
Thank you so much.
So imagine you're standing on a street anywhere in America. And a Japanese man comes up to you and says, excuse me, what is the name of this block? And you say, I'm sorry, well, this is Oak Street, that's Elm Street.
This is 26, that's 27th. He says, okay, but what is the name of that block? He says, well, blocks don't have names.
Streets have names, blocks are just the unnamed spaces in between streets. He leaves a little confused and disappointed.
So now imagine you're standing on a street anywhere in Japan. You turn to a person next to you and say, excuse me, what is the name of this street? And they say, oh, well, that's block 17, and this is block 16. And you say, OK, but what is the name of this street? And they say, well, streets don't have names.
Blocks have names.
Just look at Google Maps here.
There's Block 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19.
All of these blocks have names, and the streets are just the unnamed spaces in between the blocks.
And he said, OK, then how do you know your home address? I said, well, easy. This is district eight.
There's a block 17 house number one. And say, OK, but walking around the neighborhood, I noticed that the house numbers don't go in order. So, of course, they do.
they go in the order in which they were built.
The first house ever built on a block is house number one.
The second house ever built his house number two.
Third is House number three.
It's easy.
It's obvious. So I love that sometimes we need to go to the opposite side of the world to realize assumptions we didn't even know we had and realize that the opposite of them they also be true.
So for example, there are doctors in China who believe that it's their job to keep you healthy.
So any month you are healthy, you pay them. And when you're sick, you don't have to pay them because they failed at their job.
They get rich when you're healthy, not sick.
But in West African music, the one is thought of as the end of the phrase, like the period at the end of a sentence.
So you can hear it not just in the phrasing, but the way they count off their music to three, four, one.
and this map is also accurate.
There's a saying that whatever true thing you can say about India, the opposite is also true.
So let's never forget whether it tether anywhere else that whatever brilliant ideas you have or hear that the opposite may also be true.
Domo a ragazzi
Right now is the most exciting time to see Newy Indian art.
Contemporary artists in India are having a conversation with the world like never before.
I thought it might be interesting, even for the many long time collectors here with us, ahead, local collectors, to have an outside view of 10 young Indian artists. I wish everyone had to know.
First is Barthe Care.
The central motif of Barthese practice is the ready-made store-bought bindi that untold millions of Indian women applied their foreheads every day and then act closely associated with the institution of marriage.
But originally, the significance of the bendy is to symbolize the third eye between the spiritual world and the religious world.
Barthie seeks to liberate this everyday cliche as she calls it by exploding it into something spectacular.
She also creates life-size fiberglass sculptures, often of animals, which she then completely covers and bindi's. Often with potent symbolism.
She says she first got started with 10 packets of binaries and then wondered what she could do with 10,000.
Our next artist, Bala Sabra Maniam, really stands at the crossroads of sculpture painting and installation, working wonders with fiberglass.
Since Bala and self will be speaking a tad, I won't spend too much time on him here today, except to say that he really succeeds at making the invisible visible.
Brooklyn-based Chitra Ganesh is known for her digital collages using Indian comic books called Amar Chitra Katas as her primary source material.
These comics are a fundamental way that children, especially in the diaspora, learn their religious emisological folktales.
I for when we're steeped in these.
Chitra basically remixes and retitals these iconic images to tease out some of the sexual and gender politics embedded in these deeply influential comics.
and she uses this as vocabulary and her installation work as well.
Jithosh Colett successfully practices across photography, sculpture, painting, and installation.
As you can see, he's heavily influenced by graffiti and street art, and his home city of Mumbai is an ever-present element in his work.
He really captures that sense of density and energy which really characterizes modern urban bombay.
He also creates fantastic, historic sculptures made of bones from cast resin.
Here he envisions the carcass of an auto rickshaw he wants witnessed burning in a riot.
This next artist, NS Hershey, actually has a studio right here in Mysore.
He's putting a contemporary spin on the miniature tradition.
he creates these fine delicate images, which he then repeats an imressive scale.
He uses scale to more and more spectacular fact, whether on the roof of the Temple in Singapore, or it is increasingly ambitious installation work here with 192 functioning sewing machines, fabricating the flags of every member of the United Nations.
Mumbai based through Vyacharya builds on her love of comic books in Street Art to comment on the role as an expectations of modern Indian women.
She too minds the rich source material of Amar Chitra Kata, has been a very different way than Chitra Ganesh.
In this particular work, she actually strips out the images and leaves the actual text to reveal something previously unseen and provocative.
Rekeab Shah is Kolk at the Born Kashmir, Reyes, and London Train.
He too is reinventing the miniature tradition.
He creates these opulent tableaux inspired by Hiranamashbosh, but also by the Kashmiri textiles of his youth.
He actually applies metallic industrial pains to his work using porcupine quills to get this rich detailed effect.
I'm kind of cheating with this next artist since Rax Media Collective are really three artists working together.
Rax are probably the foremost practitioners of multimedia art and India today, working across photography, video, and installation.
Big Frequently Exploreteems of Globalization and Urbanization, and their home of Delhi is a frequent element in their work.
Here they invite the viewer to analyze a crime, looking at evidence, includes embedded in five narratives on these five different screens in which the city itself may have been the culprit.
This next artist is probably the alpha male of contemporary Indian art, Seboad Gpta.
It was first known for creating giant photorealistic canvases paintings of everyday objects, stainless steel kitchen vessels and tiffin containers known to every Indian.
He celebrates these local and mundane objects globally in an a grander and grander scale by incorporating them into ever more colossal sculptures and installations.
And finally, number 10, last and certainly not least, Rungi Shatar, who lives in works here in the state of Karnataka, creates etherealist culture and installations that really marry the organic to the industrial and brings lexibode, the local global.
These are actually wires wrapped in muslin and steeped in vegetable dye.
and she ranges them so that the viewer actually has to navigate through the space and interact with the objects.
and light and shadow are a very important part of our work.
She also explores themes of consumerism and the environment, such as in this work, where these basketball-like objects look organic and woven and are woven. But with the strips of steel, salvaged from cars that she found in a Bangalore junkyard.
10 artists six minutes. I know that was a lot to take in.
But I can only hope I've wet your appetite to go out and see and learn more about the amazing things that are happening in art in India today.
Thank you very much for looking and listening.
In 2008, Cyclone Nergis devastated Myanmar.
millions of people wherein severe need of health.
The UN wanted to rush people and supplies to the area.
But they have no maps, no maps of roads, no map showing hospitals, no way for help to research cyclone victims.
When we look at a map of Los Angeles or London, it is hard to believe that as of 2005, only 15% of the world was mapped to a geocordable level of detail.
The UN ran hex-first into a problem that the majority of the world's populace faces, not having detailed maps.
But help first coming.
at Google 40 volunteers used a new software to map 120,000 kilometers of roads, 3,000 hospitals, logistics, and relief points.
and it took them four days.
Then you software they used.
Google Map Maker.
Google Map Maker is a technology that empowers each of us to map what we know locally.
People have used this software to map everything from road storyverse from schools to local businesses and video stores to the corner store.
Maps Matter.
Nobel Prize nominee Hernando Disoto recognized that the key to economic lift off for our most developing countries is to tap the vast amounts of uncapped lies land.
For example, a trillion dollars of real estate remains uncapped lies in India alone.
In the last year alone, thousands of users in 170 countries have mapped millions of pieces of information and created a map of a level of detail never thought viable.
And this was made possible by the power of passionate users everywhere.
Let's look at some of the maps being created by users right now.
So as we speak, people are mapping the world in these 170 countries.
You can see Bridget in Africa, who just mapped their order in Senegal.
and closer to home, Chalua in M.G. Road in Bangalore.
This is the result of computation geometry, gesture recognition and machine learning.
This is a victory of thousands of users in hundreds of cities, one user, one editor time.
This is an invitation to the 70 percent of our unmapped planet.
Welcome to the new world.
Contagious is a good one.
Even in the times of H1N1, I like the word.
Laughter is contagious.
Fashioners contagious.
Inspirationalist contagious.
We've heard some remarkable stories from some remarkable speakers.
But for me, what was contagious about all of them was that they were infected by something I call the I can bug.
So the question is, why only them?
in a country of a billion people and some. Why so few?
Is it luck?
is a chance.
can we all not systematically and consciously get infected?
So in the next 8 minutes I would like to share with you my story.
I got infected when I was 17. When a student of the design college I encountered it does, who actually believed in my ideas, challenged me and had lots of cups of tea with me.
And I was struck by just how wonderful it felt and how contagious that feeling was.
I also realized I should have got infected when I was 7.
So when I started Riverside School 10 years ago, it became a lab, a lab to prototype and refine a design process that could consciously infect the mind with the eye can bug.
And I uncovered that if learning is embedded in real-world context, that is if you blur the boundaries between school and life, then children go through a journey of aware where they can see the change, enable, be changed, and then empower, lead the change.
and that directly increased student well-being.
Churen became more competent and less helpless.
But this is all common sense.
So I'd like to show you a little glimpse of what common practice looks like at Riverside.
a little background when my grade five was learning about child rights they were made to roll in sense sticks. Agar Bhatis for eight hours to experience what it means to be a child labourer.
İçen son değil.
what you will see is their journey and then their utter conviction that they could go out and change the world.
That's it.
and in two of us after the backs of broke, they were cheap.
And once that happened, you would out in the city. Commence me everybody that child-day budget had to be abolished.
and look at Raghav that moment when his face changes because he's been able to understand that he has shifted that man's mindset.
And that can happen in the classroom.
So when Dag of XP is there he went from teacher told me to I am doing it and that's the I can mind shift.
And it is a process that can be energized and nurtured.
But we had parents who said, okay, making a children good human beings is all very well. But what about math and science and English?
She was the greats and we did.
The data was conclusive.
When children are empowered, not only do they do good, they do well, in fact, very well. As you can see in this national benchmarking assessment taken by over 2000 schools in India, riverside children were outperforming the top 10 schools in India in math English and science.
Search what?
It does now time to take it outside Riverside.
So in August 15th, Independence Day 2007, the children of Riverside set out to infect.
Now does not about Jive of Setskur.
It was about all children.
So we have a shameless.
We walked into the offices of the municipal corporation, the police, the press, businesses, and basically said, when are you going to wake up and recognize a potential that resides in every child?
When will you include the child in the city?
Basically open your hearts and your minds to the child. So how did the city respond?
Since 2007, every other month, the city closes down the busiest streets for traffic and converts it into a playground for children and childhood.
Here is a city telling its child, you can. A glimpse of infection in
So the busiest street goes down
We have the traffic police and the recovery in helping us.
get to take an over.
They are skating.
They are doing streetplay.
They are playing on screen.
А прочь, isn't all gonna be chimp again good doing?
पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पुप के पु
and
about the first child's baby crossing in the world.
And because of that, M.D.B.R. is known as India's first child friendly city.
So you're getting the pattern.
First 200 children at Riverside.
Then 30,000 children at the NEMDBAD and growing.
It was time now to infect India.
So on August 15th again, Independence Day 2009, empowered with the same process, we empowered a hundred thousand children to say, I can. How?
We designed a simple toolkit, converted into eight languages and reached 32,000 schools.
with basically giving children a very simple challenge.
We said take one idea, anything that bothers you, choose one week and change a billion lives.
And they did.
Stories of change poured in from all over India. From Nagaland in the east to June June the west, from Sikkim in the north to Krishna getting in the south.
Children were designing solutions for the diverse range of problems.
right from loneliness, defiling pot holes in the street to alcoholism, and 30 children who stop 16 child marriages in Rajasthan.
I mean, it was incredible.
basically again reaffirming that when adults believe in children and say you can then they will
infection in India.
This is in.
that
I'm a must-day, Salam.
Um...
Shalom.
and
greetings to all of you from Pakistan.
It is often said that we fear that which we do not know.
And Pakistan in this particular vein is very similar.
because it has provoked and does provoke a visceral anxiety in the bellies of many a Western soul, especially when viewed through the monochromatic lens of turbulence and turmoil.
But there are many other dimensions to Pakistan.
And what follows is a stream of images, a series of images captured by some of Bikeson's most dynamic and young photographers that aims to give you an alternative glimpse. A look inside the hearts and minds of some ordinary Bikesoni citizens.
Here are some of the stories they wanted us to share with you.
My name is
come from Peshawar.
I hope that you will be able to see not just my Taliban-like beard, but also the richness and color of my perceptions, aspirations and dreams as rich and colorful as the satchels that I sell.
My name is Maharan, this is my friend, Iram.
I hope to become a vet when I grow up so that I can take care of stray cats and dogs who wander around the streets of the village that I live in near Gilgit, Northern Pakistan.
My name is Kailash.
and I like to enrich lives through technical advice.
Madden, would you like some of those orange bangles with the pink polka dots?
My name is Zaman.
and I'm an IDP, an internally displaced person from SWAT.
Do you see me on the other side of this fence?
Do I matter or really exist for you?
My name is
I am a fashion model and up and coming model from Lahore.
Do you see me simply smothered in cloth?
Or can you move beyond my veil and see me for who I truly am inside?
My name is
I am Afghan refugee from the Khabar Agency.
I have come from a place of intense darkness.
And that is why I want to illuminate the world.
My name is Papusei.
My heart and drum beat is one.
If religion is the opium of the masses, then for me, music is my one and only ganja.
A rising tide lifts all boats.
and the rising tide of India's spectacular economic growth has lifted over 400 million Indians into a buoyant middle class.
But there are still over 650 million Indians, Pakistanis, Sri Lankan, Bangladesh, and Nepalis who remain washed up on the shores of poverty.
Therefore, as India and Pakistan as UNI, it behooves us to transcend our differences, to celebrate our diversity, to leverage our common humanity.
A collective vision at Nagevon, which for many of you, as you will recognize, means new life in Urdu and Hindi, is to rejuvenate the lives of millions of low-income families by providing them with affordable access to catastrophic healthcare.
Indeed, it is the emerging world's first urban hmo for the urban working poor.
Why should we do this as Indians and Pakistanis?
We are about two threads cut from the same cloth.
And if we are afraid they are intertwined, then we believe that it is good karma. It is good fortune.
And for many of us our fortunes do indeed lie at the bottom of the pyramid.
Thank you.
to step.
That was fantastic.
I found that really moving.
You know, we fought hard to get at least a small Pakistani contingent to come.
It was felt like it was really important.
Mae'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
Please just stand up, please.
I just really want to acknowledge.
There are a lot of web 2.0 consultants who make a lot of money.
in fact to make their living's this kind of stuff.
I'm going to try to save you all the time and all the money and go through it in the next three minutes so bear with me.
So to WebSafe, back in 2005, the few friends
That's what you call a social news website. Basically all that means is the Democratic front page of the best stuff on the web.
You find some interesting content, say Ted Talk, similar to Reddit, and the community of your peers will load it up if they like it, but it's out if they don't.
that creates the front page.
It's always rising and falling, always changing, about half million people visit every day.
But this isn't about Reddit.
actually about discovering new things that pop up on the web.
last four years we've seen all kinds of memes all kinds of trends get born right on our front page.
But this isn't even about Reddit itself. It's actually about humpback whales.
OK, technically it's actually about Greenpeace, which is environmental organization that wanted to stop the Japanese government on their wailing campaign.
These humpback whales were getting killed. They wanted it. Putting into it.
And one of the ways I wanted to do it was to put a tracking ship inside one of these humpback whales.
but to really kind of personify the movement they wanted to name it.
So in true web fashion, they put together a poll when I had a bunch of very erudite, very thoughtful, cultured names.
I believe this is a farcey word for a mortal. I think this means divine power of the ocean in Polynesian language.
And there was this, Mr. Splashy Pants. And this was a special
Mr. Pants or Splashy to his friends was very popular on the internet.
In fact, someone on Reddit thought, oh, what a great thing. We should all vote this up and you know, it's Redditers responded and all agreed.
So the voting started in
We actually got behind it ourselves. We changed our logo for the day from the alien to a splashy to sort of help the cause.
And it wasn't long before other sites like Farc and Boeing Boeing and the rest of the internet started saying, yes, we love splashy pants. So it went from about 5% which was when this meme started to 70% at the end of voting.
pretty impressive, right?
We won.
Mr. Splashy Pants was chosen.
just kidding. Okay, so Greenpeace actually wasn't that crazy about it because they wanted one of their more thoughtful names to win.
They said no, no, we're just kidding.
We'll give it another week of voting. Well, that got us a little angry. So we changed it to fight in splashy.
And the Reddit community really, and the rest of the internet, rather, really got behind this.
Facebook groups.
Facebook applications.
The idea was vote your conscience vote for Mr. Spashery pants and people were putting up signs in the real world about this well.
And this is the final vote when it always cleared 78% of the votes
and giving out the land slide the next highest name pulled in three.
There was a clear lesson here. And that was the Internet.
which is obvious.
It's a great name.
Everyone wants to hear their news anchor say, Mr. Spashe pants. And I think that's what help drive this.
Well, it was cool. The repercussions.
The Greenpeace was they created an entire marketing campaign around. They sell Mr. Spassie pants shirts and pins. They've created an e-carts. You can send your friend a dancing splashy.
was even more important was the fact that they actually accomplished their mission.
Japanese government called off their willing expedition.
Mission accomplished. Greenpeace was thrilled. The whales were happy. That's a quote.
And actually, the redditors in the internet community were happy to be with the way it lovers.
a few of them certainly were.
The Greenpeace came back on the site and thanked Reddit for their participation.
This wasn't really out of all tourism. This was just out of interest in doing something cool.
And this is kind of how the internet works.
This is that great big secret.
So you're going to provide this level playing field.
Your link is just as good as your link, which is just as good as my link.
a browser anyone can get to any website and about how big a budget you have.
as long as we can keep net neutrality in place.
Another important thing is that it costs nothing to get that content online.
There are so many great publishing tools that are available. It only takes a few minutes of your time to actually produce something.
And the cost of duration is so cheap that your mind is
If you do, be genuine.
beyond a spirit front.
And one of the great lessons the Greenpeace actually learned was that it's okay to lose control. It's okay to take yourself a little less seriously. Given that even though it's a very serious cause, you could ultimately achieve your final goal.
And that's the final messages I want to share with all of you is that you can do a long line.
but no longer is the message going to be coming from just the top down.
If you want to succeed, you've gotta be okay. It's just loose control.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I've come here to share with you an experiment of how to get rid of one form of human suffering.
It really is the story of Dr. Van Kateshwami.
his mission and his message is about the R-Wend Eiquel system.
I think first it's important for us to recognize what it is to be blind.
de una noche, la de creos, y guarda una canetaría.
கண்டிக்கில் ஒரு என் முடன்தால் ஐயாகிறார்
coming blind is the big part of it but I think it also deprives the person of their livelihood, their dignity, their independence and the status of the family.
So she's just one amongst the millions who are blind.
and the irony is that they don't need to be.
a simple, well-proven surgery can restore sight to millions and something even simpler, a pair of glasses can make millions more see.
If we add to that, the many of us here know who are more productive because we have a pair of glasses, then almost one in five Indians will require a staggering 20 million people.
Today we are reaching not even 10% of them.
So this is the context in which Arvan came into existence about 30 years back as a post-retirement project of Dr. V.
I started this with no money.
have to mortgage all these life savings to make a bank loan.
And the whole time we have grown into a network of five hospitals predominantly in the state of Tamil Nadu and a point of sharing. And then we added several what we call as vision centers and as a hub and spoke a model.
And then more recently we started managing hospitals in other parts of the country and also setting a hospital in other parts of the world as well.
The last three decades we have done about three and a half million surgeries, a vast majority of them for the poor people.
And now each year we perform about 300,000 surgeries.
At the end of the year, we would do about 1000 surgeries, maybe see about 6000 patients. Send out teams into the villages to examine, bring back patients, lots of telemedicine consultations. On top of that, we would love to train both for doctors and the technicians who will become the future staff of
And then doing this day in and day out and doing it well requires a lot of inspiration and a lot of hard work.
And I think this was possible, thanks to the building blocks put in place by Dr. V, a value system, a efficient delivery process and fostering the culture of innovation.
You have to sit with the order of the revealed command because I have from the revealed agent. And suddenly turned down and then you see it seem to content as inner being. You seem to be one with him.
And here is a soul which has got all the simplicity of confidence.
Dr. Watavari say I accepted
and implicit faith in you and then you respond it.
He is a old lady who has got so much faith in me, I must do my best for him.
When the growing spiritual consciousness, we are into ourselves with all that is involved. So there is no exploitation.
Which is our selfie I help you.
It is ourselves, we are getting it.
But in a practical level, you also have to deliver services efficiently. And audit may seem the inspiration came from McDonald's.
That is simple.
They feel they can train people all over the world. It is special to have different religions, different culture, different all those things. To produce a product in the same way and deal with in the same manner in hundreds of places.
He kept talking about McDonald's and hamburgers and none of it made any sense to us.
He wanted to create a franchise, a mechanism of delivery of eye care, with the efficiency of McDonald's.
Suppose we have able to produce eye care techniques whether it is all losing the same V and make it available every corner of the world.
the
If you think about it, I think the eyeball is the same, but there's American inner or African. The problem is the same, the treatment is the same.
And yet, worship there is so much variation in quality and in service and that is a fundamental principle that we followed when we designed the delivery systems.
And of course, the challenge was that it's a huge problem. Talking of millions of people, very little resource to deal with it. And then lots of logistics and affordability issues.
and then so one had to constantly innovate.
And one of the early innovations which still continues is to create ownership in the community to the problem and then engage with them as a partner. And here is one such event
a community camp which is organized by the community themselves where they find a place organized volunteers and then we do our part.
Now check the vision and then you have doctors who do you find out what the problem is and then determine what further test needs to be done and those tests are done by technicians who check for glasses or check for glaucoma
And then with all these results, the doctor makes a final diagnosis and then disarray line of treatment. And if the need of a pair of glasses available right there at the campsite, usually under a tree.
But they get glasses in the frames of their choice and that's very important because I think glasses in addition to helping people see is also fashion statement and they're willing to pay for it.
So they get it within about 20 minutes and then those who require surgery are counsel and there are buses waiting which should transport them to the base hospital.
And if it was not for this kind of logistics and support, people like this would probably never get services and certainly not when they most needed.
They receive surgery the following day and then they will stay for a day or two and then they will put back in the buses to be taken back to where they came from and where their families were waiting to take them back home.
It may sound very impressive that we're seeing lots of patients, very efficient process, but we looked at how we're solving the problem.
We did a study, a scientifically designed process and then to our dismay we found this was only reaching 7% of those in need and we are not adequately addressing more bigger problems.
So we had to do something different. So we set up what we call as primary ICS and test vision centers.
These are truly paperless offices with completely electronic medical records and so on.
The receive comprehensive I.A. exam.
We kind of changed a simple digital camera into a retinal camera and then every patient gets a teleconciltation with a doctor.
The effect of this has been that within the first year we really had a 40% penetration in the market that it served, which is about 50,000 people.
and the second is going to up to 75%.
So I think we have a process by which we can really penetrate into the market and reach everyone who needs it. And in this process of using technology, we made sure that most don't need to come to the base of Spurles.
and how much will they pay for this?
We fixed the pricing taking into account what they would save and bus fare in coming to a city so they pay about 20 rupees and that's good for three
the design of one with a V-sat which sends out images of patients to the base hospital where it is diagnosed. And then as the patient is waiting, the report goes back to the patient. It gets printed out, the patient gets it and then gets a consultation about what they should be doing. I mean, go see your doctor or come back after six months. And then this happens as a way of bridging the technology competence.
So the impact of all this has been essentially one of growing the market because we focused on the non-customer and then by reaching the Andriy Shrayal to significantly grow the market.
The other aspect is how to deal with this efficiently. Now when you have very few of the molecules.
So what is in this video is a surgeon operating and then you see the other side. Another patient is getting ready.
So as the finish surgery, they just swing the microscope over, the table is placed for that distance is just right. And then we need to do this because by doing this kind of process, we're able to more than quadruple the productivity of the surgeon.
And then to support the surgeon, we required a certain workforce.
and then we focused on village girls that they recruited and then they really are the backbone of the organization.
And they do almost all of the skill-based routine tasks.
They do one thing at a time.
do it extremely well.
With the result we have very high productivity, very high quality and very low cost.
So putting all this together, what really happened was the productivity of our staff was significantly higher than anyone.
as the result of our complications as significantly lower than what is reported in United Kingdom. And you don't see those numbers often.
So what we did was we gave a lot of it for free and then those who pay I mean they paid local market rates nothing more and often much less
and we were helped by the market inefficiency.
I think that has been a big savior even now.
And of course, one needs the mindset to be wanting to give away what you have a surplus.
The research has been, was the use, the expenditure increase with volumes.
The revenues increased at a higher level giving us a healthy margin while you're treating a large number of people for free.
I think in absolute terms last year we earned about 20 or $1 million spent about 13 million with about a 40 percent
and what it was a couple of very counter-intuitive things.
We created competition for assets and then we made I care affordable by making a low cost consumables.
We proactively and systematically promote our best practices to many hospitals in India, many around backyards and then in other parts of the world as well.
The impact of this has been that these hospitals in the second year after our consultation doubled their output. And then achieve a financial recovery as well.
The other part was how do you address this increase in cost of technology.
So there was a time when we failed to negotiate the prices to be at affordable levels, so we set up a manufacturing unit.
And then over time, we're able to bring down the cost significantly for about 2% of what it used to be when we started out.
But today we believe we have about 7% of global market and there are use of 120 odd countries.
to conclude, I mean, what we do to serve a broader relevance, you know, or suggest India or developing countries.
So to address this, we studied the UK versus R11.
What it shows is that we do roughly about 60% of the volume of what UK does due to hospital insurgents as a whole country.
and we do about
train about 50 of the mortgages against the 70 train by them, comparable quality both in training and in a patient care.
So really comparing apples to apples.
We looked at cost.
and this more to it.
I mean, I think one has to look at other aspects as well.
Maybe there is the solution to the cost could be in productivity, maybe in efficiency in the clinical process or in how much they face for the lenses or consumables regulations, they defensive practice.
So I think decoding this can probably bring answers to most developed countries including the US and maybe Obama's ratings can go up again.
Another insight which I want to again live with you in conditions where the problem is very large which cuts across all economic strata where we have a good solution. I think the process that I described, no productivity, quality, patience and to it care, can give an answer. And there are many which fit this paradigm.
you take dentistry, hearing aid, maternity and so on.
There are many where this paradigm can apply, but I think probably one of the more challenging things is on the soft side.
Now how do you create compassion?
Now how do you make people own the problem? Want to do something about it?
They are full bit harder issues.
And I'm sure people in this cloud can probably find a solution to this.
So I want to end my thought living this thoughts and challenge.
when the growing spiritual consciousness we are into a sense with all that is involved. So there is no exploitation.
Salsiyar help me.
it is ourselves.
Thank you very much.
I'm talking to you about the worst form of human rights violation. The third largest organized crime, a $10 billion industry
and talking to you about a modern day slavery.
Let me tell you the story of these three children, Tranita, Shaheen and Angeli.
mother was a woman in prostitution, a prostitute
She got infected with HIV and towards the end of her life when she was in the final stages of AIDS, she could not prostitute. So she sold four-year-old Pranita to a broker.
By the time we got the information, we reached there, Pranita was already raped by three men.
Shaheen's background, I don't even know.
We found her in a railway track. Rip by many many men, I don't know how many.
But the indications of that on her body was that her intestine was outside her body.
And when we took her to the hospital, she needed 32 stitches to put back her in the time to her body.
We still don't know who her parents are. Who she is.
all that we know that hundreds of men had used her brutally.
Anjali's father, a drunkard, sold his child for pornography.
Kau akan mencari 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun, 10 tahun,
in this country and across the globe, hundreds and thousands of children, as young as three, as young as four, are sold into sexual slavery.
But that's not the only purpose that human beings are so far.
they sold in the name of adoption.
they sold in a name of organ trade.
They're sold in the name of forced labor, camel joc King, anything, everything.
I work on the issue of commercial sexual exploitation.
and I tell you stories from there.
My own journey to work with these children started as a teenager.
I was 15 when I was gangrip by 8 men.
I don't remember the way part of it so much as much as the anger part of it.
Yes, they were H. Man who defiled me, raped me, but that didn't go into my consciousness.
I never felt like we've victimed them all now.
Tapi apa yang berlalu untuk saya untuk saya untuk hari ini, ini adalah menggunakan kata-kata-kata.
Two years I was ostracized, I was stigmatized, I was isolated because I was a victim.
And that's what we do to all traffic survivors.
We as a civil society, we have PHSDs in victimizing a victim.
Right from the age of 15, when I started looking around me, I started seeing hundreds and thousands of women in children who are left in sexual slavery like practices, but have absolutely no despite because we don't allow them to come in.
British Dead Johnny Bigand.
Most of them come from very optional families. Not just poor.
You have given the middle class some time getting traffic.
I have hundreds of thousands of stories of very, very well-to-do family and children from well-to-do families who are getting traffic.
These people are deceived.
percent of them resist being inducted into prostitution.
So, pay the price for it.
They're killed, we don't even hear about them.
They are voiceless, anonymous, and nameless people.
But the rest who succumb into it, go through every day torture.
Men who come to them are not men who want to make you your girlfriends or who want to have a family with you.
These are men who buy you for a novel, for a day, use you through you.
Each of the girls that I have rescued, I have rescued more than 3,200 girls. Each of them tell me one story in common.
We are living among those men, their brothers, fathers, uncles, cousins, all around us.
and we are silent about them.
We think it is easy money.
the person likes to do what she's doing.
and one day she gives up on you and me because we have no options for her.
And therefore, she starts normalizing this exploitation.
ومعينا نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن نحن ن
It's abnormal to get rehabilitated.
It's in that context that I work.
It's in that context that I rescue children.
Saya rasa dia akan mencari dengan jalanan 3 tahun dan saya rasa dia akan mencari dengan 40 tahun.
When I rescued them, one of the biggest challenges I had was, where do I begin?
because I had lots of them who are already HIV-infected.
One third of the people I rescue are HIV-positive.
And therefore, my challenge was to understand how can I get out the power from the spin?
And for me, I was my greatest experience.
understand my own self, understanding my own pain, my own isolation was my greatest teacher.
because what we did with these girls is to understand their potential.
You see a goal here who's trained as a welder.
She works for a very big company, workshop in Hyderabad, making furnitures.
She earns around 12,000 rupees.
She is an illiterate girl. Trained skills as a
Why welding and why not computers?
We felt one of the things that these girls had is immense amount of courage.
They did not have any part of the body, he jobs themselves, they crossed the barrier of it. And therefore, they could fight in a male-dominated world very easily and not feel very shy about it.
have trained girls as carpenters, as meshes, as security guards, as cap drivers.
These girls are also working in big construction companies like Ramki construction as Masons, full-time
What has been my challenge?
My challenge has not been the traffickers who beat me up.
I've been beat it up more than 14 times in my life.
I can't hear from my right here.
I've lost a staff of mine who has murdered while on the rescue.
My biggest challenge is a civil society.
biggest challenge is your blocks to accept these victims as our own.
A very supportive friend of mine, a well-vision of mine, used to give me every month, 2,000 rupees for vegetables.
When her mother fell sick, she says, Sunita, you have so much of context.
It's not nice to give them employment in our factories or companies.
It's not nice for a children to study with their children.
That's my biggest shot.
If I am here today, I am here not only as Sunita Krishna,
They need your compassion.
They need your empathy.
They need much more than anything else, your acceptance.
Can you apply your mind for that one way that you can respond to the problem?
Can you break your cultural silence?
to speak to it is two persons about this story. Tell them this story.
I'm not asking you all to become a hot magandiso, Martin Luther King, or Meda Patkers, or something like that.
asking you in your limited world. Can you open your minds?
Can you open your heart?
can you just encompass these people too?
Das ist auch ein paar für alles.
They're also part of this world.
Saya akan menggunakan kamu untuk mencari kata.
The died of AIDS last year.
I'm asking you to help them accept as human beings, not as philanthropy, not as charity, but as human beings who deserve all our support.
I'm asking you this because no child, no human being deserves what these children have gone through.
Thank you.
For emotions we should not move quickly to the desert.
So first, there's more housekeeping announcement. Please switch off your proper English check programs installed in your brain.
it receives the least rainfall in the country.
if you are well versed with inches, 9 inches, centimeters, 16 inches.
the ground water is 300 feet deep 100 meters.
and in most parts it is saline, not fit for drinking.
So you can't install hand pumps or two wells, although there is no electricity in most of the villages.
but suppose you use the green technology solar pumps, they are of no use in this area.
So welcome to the Golden Desert.
Cloud seldom visit the area.
But we find 40 different names of clouds in this dialect used here.
There are number of techniques to harvest rain.
This is a new word, it's a new program.
But for the Desert Society, this is no program, this is their life.
and they harvest rain in many ways.
So this is the first device they use in harvesting grain.
It's called Kun, somewhere it is called Tanca.
And you can notice they have created a kind of false catchment.
The desert is there, sand dunes, some small fields.
and this is all big raised plate form.
You can notice a small hole, if the water will fall on this catchman and there is a slope.
Sometimes our engineers and architects do not care about slopes in bathrooms, but here they will care properly.
and the water will go where it should go.
and then it is 40 feet deep.
the water proofing is done perfectly better than our city contractors because not a single drop should go waste in this.
They collect 100,000 letters in one season.
And this is pure
below the surface there is hard saline water.
But now you can have this for ear around.
It is two houses.
We often use a term called bylaws.
because we are used to get written things.
But here it is unwritten by law.
and people make their house and the water storage tanks
these days they play from just like this state.
In fact, they go 15 feet deep and collect rainwater from roofs. This is small pipe and from their courtyard.
It can also harvest something like 25,000 in a good man's soon.
Another big one, this is of course out of the hard cold desert area.
Bu dizinin herifleri
This is called Jagger port.
and it can collect 6 million gallons of rain water in one season.
The age is 400 years.
So since 400 years it has been giving you almost 6 million gallons of water per season.
you can calculate the price of that water.
a draws water from 15 kilometers of canals.
you can see a modern road hardly 50 years old.
it can break sometimes.
But this 400 year old canal which draws water, it is maintained for so many generations.
of course, if you want to go inside the two doors are locked
but they can be open for tech people
and we convinced them.
you can see a percent coming up with two canisters of water.
and the water level these are not empty canisters water level is right up to this.
it can envy many municipalities. The color, the taste, the purity of this water.
and this is what they call 0 B type of water because it comes from the clouds pure distilled water.
We stop for a quick commercial break and then we come back to the traditional systems.
The government thought that this is a very backward area and we should bring a multi-million dollar project to bring water from the Himalayas.
That's why I said that this is a commercial break.
but we will come back once again to the traditional thing.
So, water from 300 400 kilometers away, soon it become like this.
in many portions, water-high-synth covered these big canals like anything.
Of course, there are some areas where water is reaching. I am not saying that it is not reaching at all.
But the tail end, the jessel mer area, you will notice in B can air things like this, where the water high-sins could not grow, the sand is flowing in these canals.
But the bonus is that you can find wildlife around it.
We had full page advertisements, some 30 years, 25 years ago when this canal came.
They said that throw away your traditional systems, these new cement tanks will supply you pipe water.
It's the dream.
and it became a dream also.
because soon the water was not able to reach these areas.
and people started renovating their own structures.
these are all traditional water structures which we will not be able to explain in such a short time.
but you can see that no woman is standing on
and they are working here.
this heart of this earth.
This town was established 800 years ago.
I am not sure by that time Bombay was there or Delhi was there or Chingun was there or Bangalore was there
So, this was the terminal point for silk crude.
well connected 800 years ago through Europe.
none of us were able to go to Europe but Jesselmeir was well connected to it.
And this is the 16 centimeter area.
such a limited rainfall and highest colorful life flourished in these areas.
you won't find water in this slide.
but it is invisible.
somewhere I stream or a riverlet is running through
If you want to paint, you can paint it blue throughout because every roof which you see in this picture collects rainwater drops and deposit in the rooms.
but apart from this system they design 52 beautiful water bodies around this town.
and what we call private public partnership, you can add state also.
So, state public and private and partners work together to build this beautiful water body
and it's a kind of water body for all seasons.
You will admire it.
just behold the beauty throughout the ear.
which the water level goes up or down the beauty is there throughout.
Another water body, dry the course during the summer period, but you can see how the traditional society combines engineering with aesthetics with that.
these statues, marvelous statues gives you an idea of water table.
when this rain comes and the water starts filling this tank it will submerge these beautiful statues and what we call in English today mask communication this was for mask communication
Everybody in the town will know that this elephant has drawn, so water will be there for 7 months or 9 months or 12 months.
and then they will come and worship this pond pay respect they are gratitude.
another small water body called the
is difficult to translate in English especially in my English.
perhaps the nearest will be glory reputation.
The reputation in desert of this small water body is that it never dries up.
in severe drought periods, nobody has seen this motorbody getting right up.
and perhaps the new the future also.
It was designed some 150 years ago.
But, perhaps they knew that on 6th November 2009 there will be a dead green and blue session. So, they painted it like this.
children are not standing on a very difficult device to explain.
This is called
We have in English surface water and groundwater.
but this is not groundwater.
you can draw groundwater from any well.
But this is no ordinary well.
it squeeze the moisture hidden in the sand.
and they have termed this water as the third one called Rejani.
And there is a gift some belt running below it.
and it was deposited by the great mother, Arth, some 3 million years ago.
and where we have this, give some strip, they can harvest this water.
This is the same dried water body.
Now you don't find any queen. They are all submerged.
But when the water goes down they will be able to draw water from those structures throughout the air.
This year they have received only 6 cm.
6 centimeter of rainfall and they can telephone you that if you find any water problem in your city, Delhi Bombay, Bangalore, Masu, please come to our area of 6 centimeter, we can give you water.
how they maintain them.
There are three things concept planning making the actual thing and also maintaining them.
these structures were maintained for centuries by generations without any department, without any funding. So the secret is Siddha, respect.
your own thing, not personal property, my property every time.
So, these stone pillars will remind you that you are entering into a water body area.
don't spit, don't do anything wrong, so that the clean water can be collected.
Another pillar is shown pillar on your right side.
If you climb these 360 steps you will find something very nice.
This was done in 11th century.
and you have to go further down.
they say that a picture is worth a thousand words, so we can save a thousand words right now and another thousand words
If the water table goes down, you will find new stairs.
If it comes up some of them will be
much. So throughout the year this beautiful system will give you some pleasure.
Three sides such steps on four side, there is a four-story building where you can organize such that conferences anytime.
the structures they are in front of you.
The best civil engineers we had, the best planners, the best architects.
We can say that because of them, because of their forefathers, India could get the first engineering college in 1847.
They were low English, medium schools at that time, even in these schools, low schools.
But such people compelled the East India company, which came here for business, a very dirty kind of business.
but not to create engineering colleges.
But because of them, first thing during college was created in a small village, not in the town.
The last point we all know in our primary schools that Tamil is a ship of desert.
So you can find through your Jeep a camel and a cart.
This tire comes from the aeroblite.
So look at the beauty from the desert society who can harvest rainwater and also create something a thrown tire from a get plane and used in a camel car.
Last picture is a tattoo, 2000 years old tattoo.
They were using it on their body.
tattoo was at one time a kind of blacklisted or gone thing, but now it is anything.
have some posters of this.
the center of life is water.
These are the beautiful waves.
These are the beautiful stairs which we just saw in one of these slides.
These are the trees.
and these are the flowers which give which add fragrance to our life.
So, this is the message of desert
Thank you very much.
Do you believe that they can be used elsewhere that the world can learn from this?
So is this just right for this place?
know the basic idea is to utilize whatever falls on a barrier.
So, the ponds, the open bodies are everywhere, right from Sri Lanka to Kashmir and in other parts also.
and then these tacos which is store water and there are two type of things
one recharge and one is stores.
So, it depends on the terrain.
but Queen which uses the Gipsome Belt for that you have to go back to your calendar 3 million years ago.
if it is there it can be done right now.
Otherwise it can.
As an Indian, now as a politician and a government minister, I've become rather concerned about the height we're hearing about our own country, all this talk about India becoming a world leader, even the next super power.
In fact, the American publishers and my book, The Elephant the Tiger and the Cellphone, added a gratuitous subtitle saying, India the next 21st century power. And I just don't think that's what India is all about or should be all about.
Indeed, what worries me is the entire notion of world leadership seems to be terribly archaic.
It's a redalent of James Bond movies and kippling dollars.
After what constitutes a world leader?
If it's population we're on course to top the charts.
We will overtake China by
Is it military strength?
We have the world's fourth largest army.
is a nuclear capacity.
We know we have that.
Americans have even recognized this in the agreement
Is it the economy?
Mae'n yw'n yw'n pwyrd yn yw'n pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd yn pwyrd
and we continue to grow.
and the rest of the world took a beating last year, we grew at 6.7%.
But somehow, none of that adds up to me to what I think in the really can aim to contribute in the world in this part of the 21st century.
And so one could what the future beckons for India we all about, be a combination of these things allied to something else, the power of example, the attraction of India's culture. What, in other words, people like to call soft power. Soft power is a concept invented by Harvard Academies, Joseph Nights, a friend of mine,
And very simply, and I'm really cutting it short because of the time limits here, it's essentially the ability of a country to attract others because of its culture, its political values, its foreign policies,
And lots of countries do this.
He was writing initially about the states, but we know the Aliens' forces is all about French-South-Parlaburish Council.
So the Beijing Olympics, what an exercise in Chinese, South Power.
Americans have the voice of America and the full-bright scholarships.
But the fact is, in fact, the probably Hollywood and MTV and McDonald's have done more for American softpower around the world than any specifically government activity.
So soft power is something that really emerges partly because of governments, but partly despite governments.
And in the information here of we all live in today, what we might call the Ted Age, and say that countries are increasingly being judged by a global public that's been fed on a, and it's just a diet of internet news, of televised images, of cell phone videos, of email gossip,
Mae'n ydym yn ymthio'r gwneud ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwne
Now in this age again, countries with access to multiple channels of communication and information have a particular advantage.
And of course, they're more influence sometimes about how they're seen.
India has more all news TV channels than any country in the world. In fact, in most of the countries, in this part of the world put together.
But the fact still is that it's not just there.
not have the soft power, you have to be connected.
And one might argue that India has become an astonishingly connected country.
I think you've already heard the figures.
We've been selling 15 million cell phones a month.
currently there are 509 million cell phones in Indian hands in India.
But what perhaps some of you don't realize is how far we've come to get there.
You know, when I grew up in India, telephones were a rare occasion.
In fact, there was so rare that elected members of Parliament had the right to allocate 15 telephone lines as a favor to those they deemed worthy.
If you were lucky enough to be a wealthy businessman or an influential journalist or a doctor, something might have a telephone.
Пацаны, друзья, сад!
I went to high school in Calcutta.
I mean, we would look at this instrument sitting in the front for a
But half the time we pick it up with an expectant look on our faces, they'd be no dial tone.
If there was a dial tone, you dialed a number. The odds were two and three wouldn't get the number you were intending to reach.
In fact, the words wrong number were more popular than the word hello. If you then wanted to connect to another city, let's say from Calcutta, you wanted to call Delhi, you have to book something called a trunk hall and then sit by the phone all day waiting for it to come through.
or you could pay it times the going rate for something called a lightning call.
But lightning struck around the slowly in our country in those days. So it's like about half an hour for a lightning call to come through.
In fact, so, Wolf Wolf was our telephone service that a member of Parliament stood up in 1984 and complained about this.
and the then communications minister replied in a loudly manner that in a developing country, communications are a luxury not a right, that the government had no obligation to provide better service. And if the honorable member wasn't satisfied with his telephone, could he please return it since there was an 80-along waiting list for telephone in India?
They're fast forward to today and this is what you see the 15 million cell phones a month.
But what's most striking is who's carrying those cell phones?
You know, if you visit friends and the suburbs of Delhi on the side streets, you will find a fellow with a cart that looks like it was designed in the 16th century. Welling a coal-fired steam iron that might have been invented in the 18th century.
score an is three-wallah.
But he's carrying a 21st century instrument
is carrying a cell phone because most going incoming calls are free and that's how he gets orders from the neighborhood to get his to know where to collect clues to get them out.
The other day I was in Kerala, my home state, at the country farm of a friend about 20 km away from any place you would consider urban.
And it was a hot day, he said, here would you like some fresh coconut water? And the best thing, the most nutritious and refreshing thing you can drink on a hot day in the tropics. So I said, sure.
Fishingmen are going out to see and carrying their cell phones
in the cast of the fish they call all the market tonnes along the coast to find out where they get the best possible prices.
Followers now who used to have to spend half a day back breaking labor to find out if the market town was open if the market was on whether the product they had harvested could be sold what price they had fetched
They'd often send an 8-year-old boy all the way on the stretch to the market town to get that information and come back, then load the cart.
to did this seeing half a day's, saving half a day's labor with a two minute phone call.
So this empowerment of the Underclass is the real result of India being connected.
And that transformation is part of where India is heading today.
Mae yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'
You've got Bollywood.
My attitude to Bollywood is best summarized in the tale of the two goats that a Bollywood garbage dump. A kick-up rule will note out, forgive me. And they're chewing away on cans of celluloid discarded by Bollywood Studio.
I've met a young man in New York who's illiterate mother in a village in Senegal takes a bus once a month to the capital city of Dakar just to watch a Bollywood movie.
She can understand the dialogue.
She's a litre so she can't read the friend subtitles.
but these movies are made to be understood despite such handicaps and she has a great time in the song in the dance reaction
To understand the business of mythology and what a chief belief officer is supposed to do, you have to hear a story of Ganesha, the elephant headed God who is the scribe of storytellers and his brother, the athletic wall-order of the gods, Kartikeh.
The two brothers, one day they decided to go on a race. Three times around the world.
girl let on his peacock and flew around the continents and the mountains and the oceans.
He went around once, he went around twice. He went around twice.
But his brother, Ganesha, simply walked around his parents once twice twice. And said, I won. How come said Karthikaya?
And Ganesha said, you went around the world. I went around my world. What matters more?
If you understand the difference between the derval and my world, you understand the difference between logos and mythos.
The world is objective, logical, universal, factual, scientific.
My world is subjective.
emotional.
It's personal.
It's perceptions, thoughts, feelings, dreams.
It is the belief system that we carry.
It's the myth that we live in.
Double tells us how the world functions, how the sun rises, how we are born.
My world tells us why the sun rises, why will we burn?
Every culture is trying to understand itself. Why do we exist? And every culture comes up with its own understanding of life. Its own customized version of mythology.
Culture is a reaction to nature and this understanding of Iran's gestures is transmitted generation from generation in the form of stories, symbols and rituals which are always in different irrationality.
And so when you study it, you realize that different people of the world have a different understanding of the world.
Different people see things differently, different viewpoints.
There is my world and there is your world and my world is always better than your world. Because my world you see is rational and yours is superstition.
Yours is fake.
Yours is illogical.
This is the root of the clash of civilizations.
It took place once in 326 BC on the banks of a river called the Indus. Now in Pakistan.
This river lends itself to India's name.
India.
you
Alexander, a young Macedonian, met there what he called a gymno-sophist, which means the naked wise man. We don't know who he was.
Perhaps he was a Jane monk like Bahubali, or he had a good mate, or Bahubali, who's images not far from my soul.
or perhaps he was just a yogi who was sitting on a rock, staring at the sky and the sun in the moon.
I'll examine what are you doing and the gymnast of his trans said, I'm experiencing nothingness. Then the gymnast of his caste, what are you doing? And Alexander said, I am conquering the world and they both laughed.
Each one thought that there was a fool.
Jim Nosofus said, why is he conquering the world?
It's pointless. And Alexander thought, why is he sitting around doing nothing?
What a waste of a life. To understand his difference in viewpoints, we have to understand the subjective truth of Alexander, his myth and the mythology with constructed it.
Alexander's mother, his parents, the teacher, Aristotle told him the story of Homer's Iliada. They told him of a great hero called Achilles, who went participated in battle, victory was a shod, but when he withdrew from the battle, defeat was inevitable.
Achilles was a man who could shape history, a man of destiny, and this is what you should be Alexander. That's what he heard.
What should you not be?
You should not be sissifice. Who rolls a rock up the mountain all day only to find the boulder rolled down at night.
Don't live a life which is monotonous, mediocre, meaningless.
This is the end!
Like the Greek heroes, like Jason, who went across the sea with the Argonauts and fetched the golden fleece.
be spectacular like Thesis who entered the labyrinth and killed the bullheaded minotor.
When you play in a race, win!
Because when you win, the exhilaration of victory is the closest you will come to the Ambrosia of the Gods. Because you see the Greeks believed you live only once. And when you die, you have to cross the river sticks.
And if you have lived an extraordinary life, you will be welcomed to Elisium, or what the French call, Shazilise. The heaven of the heroes.
But these are not the stories that the Jim Nossophist heard.
He heard a very different story.
He heard of a man called Bharat after whom India is called Bharat.
also conquer the world.
And then he went to the topmost peak of the greatest mountain in the center of the world called
And he wanted to hoist his flag to say, I was here first. But when he reached the mountain peak, he found the peak covered with countless flags of world conquerors before him. Each one claiming I was here first.
That's what I thought until I came here. And suddenly, in this canvas of infinity, Bharat felt insignificant.
This was the mythology of the Jim Noss Office.
You see, he had heroes like Ram, Raghu Bhatiram and Krishna go in the head
but they were not two characters on two different adventures.
They were two lifetimes of the same hero.
When Rama and Enz, the Mahabharat begins.
When Ram dies Krishna is born
and Krishna dies eventually he will be back as Ram.
You see, the Indians also had a river of its separates, the land of the living from the land of the dead.
but you don't cross it once.
You go to and show endlessly.
It was called the White Terni.
You go again and again and again.
because you see nothing lasts forever in India, not even death.
And so you have these grand rituals where great images of Mother Goddesses are built and worshiped for ten days.
and what do you do at the end of 10 days?
இது தங்கிட்டிந்துவிட்டுவா!
because it has to end.
And next year she will come back.
What goes around always comes around and this rule applies not just to man, but also the gods.
You see the gods have to come back again and again and again as Rama is Krishna.
Not only do they live in finite lives, but the same life is lived in finite times to you get the point of it all.
Groundhogs today. Two different mythologies.
which is right.
Two different mythologies, two different ways of looking at the world.
1 leaner 1 cycle to
One believes this is the one and only life.
The other believes this is one of many lives.
and showed the denominator of Alexander's life was one.
So the value of his life was the sum total of achievements.
the denominator of the Jim Nosophilic Life was infinity.
So no matter what he did, it was always zero.
And I believe it is this mythological paradigm that inspired Indian mathematicians to discover the number zero.
Who knows?
And that brings us to the mythology of business.
If Alexander's belief influenced his behaviour, if the Jim Noss Office's belief influences behaviour, then it was bound to influence the business they were in.
You see, what is business? But the result of how the market behaves and how the organization behaves.
And if you look at cultures around the world, all you have to do is understand the mythology and you will see how they behave and how they do business.
Take a look.
If you live only once in one life culture around the world, you will see an obsession with binary logic. Absolutely truth, standardization, absoluteness, venial patterns and design.
But if you look at cultures which are cyclical and based on infinite lives, you will see a comfort with fuzzy logic, with opinion, with contextual thinking, with everything's relative sort of, mostly
You look at the art!
Look at the ballerina, how linear she is in her performance.
and didn't look at the Indian classical dancer, the kuchu-puri dancer, the Bharat Natkim dancer, Kervishya.
And then look at business.
Standard Business Model Vision Mission Values Processes.
sounds very much like the journey through the wilderness to the Promised Land with the Commandments held by the leader.
And if you comply, you will go to heaven.
But in India there is no dirt promised land.
and many promised lands. Depending on your station and society, depending on your stage of life.
You see businesses are not run as institutions, but the idiosyncrasies of individuals.
It's always about taste.
It's always about my taste.
You see, in the music, for example, does not have the concept of harmony.
There is no orchestra conductor.
There is one performance standing then everybody follows.
and you can never replicate the performance twice.
It is not a documentation and contract.
it's about conversation and faith.
It's not about compliance.
It's about setting, getting the job done by bending or breaking the rules. Just look at your Indian people around here. You'll see them smile. They know what it is.
And then look at people have done business in India, you'll see the exasperation on their faces.
The ground reality is based on a cyclical worldview.
So it's rapidly changing, highly diverse, chaotic, ambiguous, unpredictable.
People are okay with it.
and then globalization is taking place.
The demands of modern institutional thinking is coming in.
which is rooted in one life culture.
and clash is going to take place like on the banks of the Indian.
It is bound to happen.
I have personally experienced it.
I'm trained as a medical doctor.
I did not want to study surgery.
Don't ask me bye.
love mythology too much.
I want to learn mythology.
but there's no way you can study.
So I've predicted myself.
and mythology does not pay and will until now.
So I'd take a big job.
and I worked in the farm industry.
And I've got the healthcare industry.
and I worked as a marketing guy and a sales guy and a knowledge guy and a content guy and a training guy.
I even was a business consultant doing strategies and tactics.
And I would see the exasperation between American and European colleagues when they were dealing with India.
example, please tell us the process to invoice hospitals.
Step
Step B.
Step three.
もしか
How do you parameterize mostly?
How do you put it in a nice little software?
You can!
I would give my view points to people.
but nobody was interested in listening to it. You see, until I met Kishore Biani of the Future Group.
You see he has established the largest retail chain called Big Bazaar.
and there are more than 200 formats across 50 cities in towns of India.
and he was dealing with diverse and dynamic markets.
and he knew very intuitively that best practices developed in Japan and China and Europe and America will not work in India.
He knew that institutional thinking doesn't work in India.
individual thinking.
get an intuitive understanding of the mythic structure of India.
So he asked me to be the Chief Belief Officer and said, all I want you to is a line belief. Sounds so simple.
But belief is not measurable.
You can't measure it.
you can manage it.
So how do you construct belief?
How do enhance the sensitivity of people to Indianness?
Even if you are Indian, it is not very explicit, it is not very obvious.
So I try to work on the standard model of culture which is developed stories symbol that which will
I will share one of the rituals with you.
You see it is based on the Hindu ritual of Darshan.
Hindus don't have the concept of commandments.
So there's nothing right or wrong in what you do in life.
So not really sure how you stand in front of God.
So when you go to the temple all you seek is an audience with God.
you want to see
and you want God to see you at once. The gods have very large eyes, large, unblinking eyes, sometimes made of silver. So they look at you.
because you don't know whether you're right or wrong and so all you see is divine empathy.
Just nowhere I came from. Why I did the jugard? Why did that do the setting? Why don't you care for the processes?
just understand me. Please. And based on this we created ritual for leaders.
After the leader completes the training and is about to take over the store, we blindfold him. We surround him with his stakeholders. The customer, his family, his team, his boss.
You read out his KRA KPI, you give him the keys and then you remove the blindfold.
and invariably you see a tear because the penny has dropped.
He realizes that to succeed, he does not have to be a professional. He does not have to cut out his emotions. He has to include all these people in his world to succeed, to make them happy, to make the boss happy, to make everyone happy,
The customers have to be with the customer, is God.
that sensitivity is what we need.
Once this belief enters, behavior will happen, business will happen.
and it has.
So then we come back to Alexander and to the gymnast of his
and everybody asks me which is the better way. This way or that way, hence a very dangerous question because it leads you to the path of fundamentalism and violence.
So I will not answer the question.
Whatever gives an Indian answer, the Indian head shake.
You see, because both the paradigms are human constructions.
The cultural creations, not natural phenomena.
And so the next time you need someone, a stranger, one request, understand that you live in the subjective truth and so does he.
understand it.
When you understand it, you will discover something spectacular.
He will discover that within infinite myths lies the eternal truth.
Who sees it all?
Varunah has about a thousand eyes.
Indra 100.
UNI only too.
Thank you.
you
So a few years ago my eyes were open to the dark side of the construction industry.
In 2006, young Katari students took me to go and see the migrant worker camps.
I, since then, I followed the unfolding issue of work,
In the last six months, more than 300 skyscrapers in the UAE have been put on hold or canceled.
behind the headlines that lay behind these buildings is the fate of the often-indentured construction worker.
million of them.
Mainly Indian, Pakistani, Sri Lanka, and Nepalese, these laborers risk everything to make money for their families back home.
They pay a middleman thousands of dollars to be there.
And when they arrive, they find themselves in labor camps with no water, no air conditioning, and that passports take it away.
while it's easy to point the finger at local officials and higher authorities, 99% of these people are hired by the private sector. And so therefore, we're equally of not more accountable.
groups like Billed Safe UAE have emerged, but the numbers are simply overwhelming.
In August 2008, UAA public officials noted that 40% of the country's 1,098 labor camps had violated minimum health and fire safety regulations.
and lost summer, more than 10,000 workers protested for the non-payment of wages, for the poor quality of food, and inadequate housing.
and then the financial collapse happened.
When the contractors have gone bust as they've been overleverage like everyone else, the difference is everything goes missing. Documentation, passports, and tickets home for these workers.
currently right now thousands of workers are abandoned.
There's no way back home.
and there's no way a no proof of arrival.
These are the Boomin-Bast refugees.
The question is, as a building professional, as an architect, and engineer, as a developer, if you know this is going on, as we go to the sites every single week, are you complacent or complicit in the human rights violations?
So let's forget your environmental footprint.
Let's think about your ethical footprint.
What good is it to build a zero-carbon energy efficient complex when the labor producing this architectural gem is unethical at best?
Now recently I've been told I've been taking the high road.
But quite frankly, on this issue, there is no other road.
So let's not forget who's really paying the price of this financial collapse.
And as we worry about our next job in the office, the next design that we can get to keep our workers.
Let's not forget these men who are truly dying to work.
Thank you.
I'm Dr. David Hansen and I build robots with character.
And by that I mean that I develop robots that are characters, but also robots that will eventually come to empathize with you.
So we're starting with a variety of technologies that have converged into these conversational character robots that can see phases, make eye contact with you, make a full range of facial expressions, understand speech, and begin to model how you're feeling and who you are and build a relationship with you.
I developed a series of technologies that allow robots to make more realistic facial expressions than previously achieved, on lower power which enabled walking by-ped robots, the first Android.
So it's a full range of facial expressions stimulating all the major muscles in the human face running on very small batteries extremely lightweight.
The materials that allow the battery operated facial expressions is a material that we call fruber and it actually has three major innovations in the material that allow this to happen.
one is hierarchical pores and the other is a macro molecular nanoscale porosity in the material.
is starting to work.
This is at the Korean Advanced Institute of Science and Technology.
I built the head.
they built the body.
So the goal here is to achieve sentience and machines and not just sentience, but empathy.
We're working with the machine perception laboratory at the UC San Diego.
They have this really remarkable facial expression technology that recognizes facial expressions, what facial expressions you're making.
and also recognize is where you're looking, your head orientation.
we're emulating all the major facial expressions and then controlling it with the software that we call the character engine.
And here's a little bit of the technology that's involved with
And then that in fact, when I plug it from here, I'm gonna plug it in here. And now let's see if it gets my facial expressions.
Okay.
So smile.
You know, I'm frowning.
This is really heavily backlit.
Okay, really?
So sad.
Okay, see you smile, frowning.
So his perception of your emotional states is very important for machines to effectively become empathetic.
machines are becoming a devastatingly capable of things like killing.
All right.
Those machines have no place for empathy.
and there's billions of dollars being spent on that.
character robotics could plant the seed for robots that actually have empathy.
So if they achieve human level intelligence or quite possibly greater than human levels of intelligence, this could be the seeds of hope for our future.
So we've made 20 robots in the last eight years during the course of getting my PhD, and then I started Hanson Robotics, which has been developing these things for mass manufacturing.
This is one of our robots that we showed at Wired next to us a couple of years ago.
and it sees multiple people in a scene, remembers where individual people are, and looks from person to person, remembering people.
So we're involving two things.
one, the perception of people and two, the natural interface, the natural form of the interface so that it's more intuitive for you to interact with the robot.
you start to believe that it's alive and aware.
So one of my favorite projects was bringing all this stuff together in an artistic display of an Android portrait of science fiction writer, Philip K.
Dick, who wrote great works like, Do You And Do Our Dream of Electric Sheep, which was the basis of the movie Blade Runner? And these stories robots often think that they are human and they sort of come to life.
So we put his writings letters, his interviews, correspondence into a huge database of thousands of pages, and then use some natural language processing to allow you to actually have a conversation with him.
And it's kind of spooky because he would say these things that just sound like they really understood you.
This is one of the most exciting projects that we're developing, which is a little character that's a spokesbot for friendly artificial intelligence, friendly machine intelligence.
and we're getting this mass mean in fact sure.
We've stepped it out to actually be doable with a very, very low cost bill of materials so that it can become a childhood companion for kids.
interfacing with the internet, it gets smarter over the years.
as Artificial Intelligence evolves, so it is his intelligence.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Clearly we're living in a moment of crisis.
arguably the financial markets have failed us and the aid system is failing us and yet I stand firmly with the optimists who believe that there's probably never been a more exciting moment to be alive.
because of some of the technologies we've been talking about.
because of the resources, the skills, and certainly the surge of talent we're seeing all around the world, with the mindset to create change.
And we've got a president who sees himself as a global citizen who recognizes that no longer is there a single superpower but that we've got to engage in a different way with the world.
And by definition, every one of you who is in this room must consider yourself a global soul, a global citizen.
you work on the front lines.
and you've seen the best in the worst that human beings can do for one another and two one and another.
And no matter what country you live or work in, you've also seen the extraordinary things individuals are capable of, even in their most ordinary.
Today, there's a raging debate as to how best we lift people out of poverty, how best we release their energies.
On the one hand, we have people that say, the aid system is so broken, we need to throw it out.
And on the other we have people who say, the problem is we need more aid.
And what I want to talk about is something that's compliments both systems.
We call it patient capital.
The critics point to the $500 billion spent in Africa since 1970 and say, and what do we have, but environmental degradation and incredible levels of poverty rampant corruption.
and they use Mavuto as metaphor.
And their policy prescription is to make government more accountable, focus on the capital markets, invest. Don't give anything away.
On the other side, as I said, there are those who say the problems that we need more money.
that when it comes to the rich, we'll bail out and we'll hand a lot of aid. But when it comes to our poor brethren, we want little to do with it.
They point to the successes of age. The eradication of smallpox and the distribution of tens of millions of malaria bednets and anti-retroviral
both sides or right.
And the problem is that neither side is listening to the other.
even more problematic, they're not listening to poor people themselves.
To 25 years of working on issues of poverty and innovation, it's true that there are probably no more market-oriented individuals on the planet than low-income people.
They must navigate markets daily, making micro decisions, dozens and dozens, to move their way through society. And yet if a single catastrophic health problem impacts their family, they could be put back into poverty sometimes for generations.
And so we need both the market and we need aid.
Patient capital works between and tries to take the best of both.
It's money that's invested in entrepreneurs who know their communities and are building solutions to healthcare, water, housing, alternative energy, thinking of low-income people not as passive recipients of charity, but as individual customers, consumers, clients, people who want to make decisions in their own lives.
Patient capital requires that we have incredible tolerance for risk, a long time horizon in terms of allowing those entrepreneurs time to experiment, to use the market as the best listening device that we have. And the expectation of below market returns, but outside social impacts.
It recognizes that the market has its limitation, and so patient capital also works with smart subsidy to extend the benefits of a global economy to include all people.
Now entrepreneurs need patient capital for three reasons.
First, they tend to work in markets where people make one, two, three dollars a day and they're making all of their decisions within that income level.
Second, the geographies in which they work have terrible infrastructure, no roads to speak of sporadic electricity and high levels of corruption.
Third, they are often creating markets.
Even if you're bringing clean water for the first time into rural villages, it is something new.
And so many low-income people have seen so many failed promises broken and seeing so many quacks and sporadic medicines offer to them that building trust takes a lot of time, takes a lot of patience.
It also requires being connected to a lot of management assistance.
Not only to build the systems, the business models that allow us to reach low income people in a sustainable way, but to connect those businesses to other markets, to governments, to corporations, real partnerships if we want to get to scale.
I want to share one story about an innovation called drip irrigation.
In 2002, I met this incredible entrepreneur named Amitabha Sedangi from India who had been working for 20 years with some of the poorest farmers on the planet.
And he was expressing his frustration that the aid market had bypassed low income farmers altogether despite the fact that 200 million farmers alone in India make under a dollar a day.
They were creating subsidies either for large farms or they were giving inputs to the farmers that they thought they should use rather than that the farmers wanted to use.
At the same time, Amitabba was obsessed with this drip irrigation technology that had been invented in Israel.
It was a way of bringing small amounts of water directly to the stock of the plant.
and it could transform swaths of desert land into fields of emerald greens.
But the market also had bypassed low income farmers because these systems were both too expensive and they were constructed for fields that were too large.
The average small hole to farmer works on two acres or less.
And so, and I'll be time-it-decided that he would take that innovation and he would redesign it from the perspective of the poor farmers themselves because he had spent so many years listening to what they needed, not what he thought that they should have.
and use three fundamental principles.
The first one was miniaturization.
The drip irrigation system had to be small enough that a farmer only had to risk a quarter acre, even if he had two, because it was two frightening given all that he had at stake.
Second, it had to be extremely affordable.
In other words, that risk on the quarter acre needed to be repaid in a single harvest, or else they wouldn't take the risk.
And third, it had to be what Amitabal calls infinitely expandable.
What I mean is with the profits from the first quarter acre, the farmers could buy a second and the third and a fourth.
As of today, I do e India, Amitabh's organization has sold over 300,000 farmers these systems and has seen their yields and incomes double or triple on average. But this didn't happen overnight.
In fact, when you go back to the beginning, there were no private investors who would be willing to take a risk on building a new technology for a market class that made under a dollar a day that would known to be some of the most risk-averse people on the planet, and that we're working on one of the riskiest sectors agriculture.
And so we needed grass.
and a use significant grants to research, to experiment, to fail, to innovate and try again.
And when he had a prototype and had a better understanding of how to market to farmers, that's when patient capital could come in.
and we helped him build a company for a profit that would build on IDE's knowledge and start looking at sales and exports and be able to tap into other kinds of capital.
Secondly, we wanted to see if we could export this drip irrigation and bring it into other countries.
And so we met Dr. Sonokanga-dani in Pakistan.
And while again, you needed patience to move a technology for the poor in India into Pakistan, just to get the permits. Over time, we were able to start a company with Dr. Sonoh, who runs a large community development organization in the tar desert, which is one of the remote and poor areas of the country.
And though that company has just started, our assumption is that there too will see the impact on millions.
But, prepareggation isn't the only innovation.
We're starting to see these happening all around the world.
in Arusha Tanzania. A to Z, text on manufacturing has worked in partnership with us with UNICEF with the Global Fund, which is great a factory that now employ 7,000 people mostly women.
and they produce 20 million life-saving bed nets for Africans around the world.
Life-spring hospital is a joint venture between acumen and the government of India to bring quality, affordable, and maternal healthcare to low-income women. And it's been so successful that it's currently building a new hospital every 35 days.
nine ambulances, decided that it was going to reinvent a completely broken industry, building an ambulance service in Bombay that would use the technology of Google Earth, a sliding scale pricing system so that all people could have access and a severe and public decision not to engage in any form of corruption.
So that in the terrorist attacks of November, they were the first responder and are now beginning to scale because of partnership.
They've just won four government contracts to build after 100 ambulances in our one of the largest and most effective ambulance companies in India.
This idea of scale is critical.
because we're starting to see these enterprises reach hundreds of thousands of people.
all of the ones I discussed have reached at least a quarter million people.
but that's obviously not enough.
and it's where the idea of partnership becomes so important.
Whether it's by finding those innovations that can access the capital markets, government itself, or partner with major corporations, there's unbelievable opportunity for innovation.
President Obama understands that.
He recently authorized the creation of a social innovation fund to focus on what works in this country and look at how we can scale it.
And I would submit that it's time to consider a global innovation fund that would find these entrepreneurs around the world who really have innovations not only for their country, but ones that we can use in the developed world as well.
invest financial assistance but also management assistance.
and then measure the returns both from a financial perspective and from a social impact perspective.
When we think about new approaches to aid, it's impossible not to talk about Pakistan.
We've had a rocky relationship with that country and in all fairness, the United States has not always been a very liable partner.
But again, I would say that this is our moment for extraordinary things to happen.
And if we take that notion of a global innovation fund, we could use this time to invest not directly in government, though we would have governments blessing, nor in international experts. But in the many existing entrepreneurs and civil society leaders who already are building wonderful innovations that are reaching people all across the country.
People like Rashani's offer, who created one of the largest microfinance banks in the country and has a real role model for women inside and outside the country.
and Tasnim Sadiki, who developed a way called incremental housing where he's moved 40,000 slum dwellers into safe, affordable community housing.
educational initiatives like Dill and the Citizen Foundation that are building schools across the country.
It's not hyperbole to say that these civil society institutions and the social entrepreneurs are building real alternatives to the Taliban.
I've invested in Puckstown for over seven years now and for those of you who've also worked there can attest the Pakistanis are an incredibly hard-working population and there's a fierce upward mobility in their very nature.
President Kennedy said that those who make peaceful revolution impossible make violent revolution inevitable.
I would say that the Congress is true.
that these social leaders who really are looking at innovation and extending opportunity to the 70% of Pakistanis who make less than $2 a day provide real pathways to hope.
And as we think about how we construct aid for Pakistan, while we need to strengthen the judiciary, build greater stability, we also need to think about lifting those leaders who can be role models for the rest of the world.
I'm one of my last visits to Pakistan. I asked Dr. Sonow if he would take me to see some of the drip irrigation in the tariways.
And we left Karachi one morning before dawn.
was about 115 degrees.
And we drove for eight hours along this moon-skate-like landscape with very little color, lots of heat, very little discussion because we were exhausted.
And finally at the end of the journey I could see the spin little yellow line across the horizon.
And as we got closer, its significance became apparent.
that there in the desert was a field of sunflowers going seven feet tall.
because one of the poorest farmers on earth had gotten access to a technology that had allowed him to change his own life.
His name was Rajan and he had kind, twinkly, his lies, and warm expressive hands that reminded me of my father.
And he said it was the first dry season in his entire life that he hadn't taken his 12 children and 50 grandchildren on a two-day journey across this desert to work his day laborers at a commercial farm for about 50 cents a day.
because he was building these crops.
And with the money he earned, he could stay this year.
And for the first time ever in three generations, his children will go to school.
We asked him if he would send his daughters as well as his son.
And he said, of course I will.
because I don't want them discriminated against anymore. When we think about solutions to poverty, we cannot deny individuals their fundamental dignity.
because at the end of the day, dignity is more important to the human spirit than wealth.
And what's exciting is to see so many entrepreneurs across sectors who are building innovations that recognize that what people want is freedom and choice and opportunity.
because that's where dignity really starts.
Martin Luther King said that love without power is anemic and sentimental. And that power without love is reckless and abusive.
Our generation has seen both approaches tried and often failed.
But I think our generation also might be the first to have the courage to embrace both love and power.
For that is what we'll need as we move forward to dream and imagine what it will really take to build a global economy that includes all of us and to finally extend that fundamental proposition that all men are created equal to every human being on the planet.
The time for us to begin innovating and looking for new solutions across sector is now.
I can only talk for my own experience, but in eight years of running active in the time, I've seen the power of patient capital.
Not only to inspire innovation and risk-taking, but to truly build systems that have created more than 25,000 jobs and delivered tens of millions of services and products to some of the poorest people on the planet.
I know it works.
But I know that many other kinds of innovation also work.
And so I urge you in whatever sector you work and whatever job you do to start thinking about how we might build solutions that start from the perspective of those we're trying to help.
rather than what we think that they might need.
It will take embracing the world with both arms.
and it will take living with the spirit of generosity and accountability with a sense of integrity and perseverance.
And yet these are the very qualities for which men and women have been honored throughout the generations.
And there is so much good that we can do.
just think of all this on flowers in the desert.
Thank you.
For me, they normally happen, these career crises are often actually on a Sunday evening, just as a sun is starting to set and the gap between my hopes for myself and the reality of my life start to diverge so painfully that I normally end up weeping into a pillar.
I'm mentioning all this because I think this is not merely a personal problem. You may think I'm wrong in this. But I think that we live in an age when our lives are regularly punctuated by career crises by moments when what we thought we knew about our lives, about our careers, comes into contact with a threatening sort of reality.
It's perhaps easier now than ever before to make a good living.
y yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw
I want to look at now, if I may, as some of the reasons why we might be feeling anxiety about our careers
oedd yw'r gwneud yn ymthio'r ar pylos
One of the reasons why we might be suffering is that we are surrounded by snobbs.
in a way I've got some bad news particularly for anybody who's come to Oxford from abroad.
Mae'n rhylw'n problem yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd yn ymthrwyd
the bad uses, that's not true.
It's not very global phenomenon. Global organization is global phenomenon.
It exists as what is a snob.
a snob is anybody who takes a small part of you and accuses that to come to a complete vision of who you are.
That is
The dominant kind of snobbery that exists nowadays is Job's snobbery.
you encounter it within minutes at a party when you get asked that famous iconic question of the early 21st century, what do you do? And according to how you answer that question, people are either incredibly delighted to see you all look at their watch and make their excuses.
Now, the opposite of a snob is your mother.
Not necessarily, not necessarily your mother or indeed mine, but as it were the ideal mother, somebody who doesn't care about your achievements.
Unfortunately, most people are not our mothers.
Most people make strict correlation between how much time and if you like love, not romantic love, though that may be something, but love in general, respect. They are willing to record us. That will be strictly defined by our position in the social hierarchy.
And that's a lot of the reason why we care so much about our careers. And indeed, it's not caring so much about a material goods.
We're often told that we live in very materialistic times that we're all greedy people.
I don't think we are particularly materialistic.
I think we live in a society which has simply pegged certain emotional rewards to the acquisition of material goods.
It's not the material goods we want, it's the rewards we want.
new wave looking at luxury goods.
The next time you see somebody driving a Ferrari, don't think this is somebody who's greedy. Think this is somebody who's incredibly vulnerable and in need of love. In other words, feel sympathy rather than contempt.
There are other reasons. There are other reasons why it's perhaps hard and now to feel calm than ever before.
One of these, and it's paradoxical because it's linked to something that's rather nice, is the hope we all have for our careers.
Never before have expectations been so high about what human beings can achieve with their lifespan.
were told for many sources that anyone can achieve anything.
Mae'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
and it's a beautiful idea.
along with that has come a spirit of equality, we're all basically equal.
Mae'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymthio'r hynnych yn ymth
envy it's a real taboo to mention envy but if there's one dominant emotion in modern society that is envy.
and its linked to the spirit of equality.
Let me explain.
Mae'n yw'n yw'n i'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n
even though she's much richer than any of you are. And she's at a very large house. The reason why we don't end via, the reason why we don't end via is because she's too weird.
uh... she's simply too strange
We can't relate to her. She speaks in a funny way. She comes from a sort of odd place.
So we can't relate to her. And when you can't relate to somebody, you don't envy them.
The closer two people are in age, in background, in the process of identification, the more there's a danger of envy, which is incidentally why none of you should ever go to a school reunion. Because there is no stronger reference point than people, one was at school with
The problem generally of modern societies is that it turns the whole world into a school.
Everybody's wearing jeans, everybody's the same.
and yet they're not.
So there's a spirit of equality combined with deep inequalities, which makes for a very can make for a very stressful situation.
Mae'n yw'n gwneud yw'n gwneud yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'
But the point is it doesn't feel that way.
It's made to feel by magazines and other media outlets that if you've got energy, a few bright ideas about technology at garage, you too could start a major thing.
and the consequences of this problem make themselves felt in book shops.
when you go to a large bookshop and look at the self-help sections. As I sometimes do, if you analyze self-help books that are produced in the world today, they're basically two kinds.
The first kind tells you you can do it.
You can make it.
anything's possible. And the other kind, tell you, how to cope with what we politely call low self esteem, or impolitely call feeling very bad about yourself. There's a real correlation shift between a real correlation between a society that tells people that they can do anything and the existence of low self esteem.
So that's another way in which something that's quite positive can have a nasty kickback.
Mae'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n y
and it's again linked to something nice.
Yn yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw
Everybody, all politicians on left and right agree that meritocracy is a great thing, and we should all be trying to make our societies really, really meritocratic.
In other words, what is a meritocratic society?
Society is one in which if you've got talent and energy and skill you will get to the top nothing should hold you back
It's a beautiful idea.
The problem is, if you really believe in a society where those who merit to get to the top get to the top, you'll also buy implication and in a far more nasty way, believe in a society where those who deserve to get to the bottom also get to the bottom and stay there.
In other words, your position in life comes to seem not accidental but marited and deserved.
And that makes failure seem much more crushing.
You know, in the Middle Ages, in England, when you met a very poor person, that person would be described as an unfortunate. Literally someone who had not been blessed by fortune and unfortunate.
Nowadays, particularly in the United States, if you meet someone at the bottom of society, they may untimely be described as a loser. There's a real difference between an unfortunate and a loser, and that shows 400 years of evolution in society and are belief in who is responsible for our lives.
It's no longer the God, it's us.
We're in the driving seat.
That's exhilarating if you're doing well and very crushing if you're not.
It leads in the worst cases and the analysis of sociologists like Emil Durkheim, it leads to increased rates of suicide.
are more so-asides in developed, individualistic countries than in any other part of the world.
And some of the reason for that is that people take what happens to them extremely personally, their own success, but they also own their failure.
Is there any relief from some of these pressures that I've just been outlining?
I think there is.
I just want to turn to a few of them.
Let's take meritocracy.
this idea that everybody deserves to get where they get to. I think it's a crazy idea. Completely crazy.
I will support any politician of left and right with any halfway decent meritocratic idea. I'm a meritocratic net cent.
But I think it's insane to believe that we will ever make a society that is genuinely meritocratic. It's an impossible dream.
The idea that we will make a society where literally everybody is graded. The good at the top and the bad at the bottom and it's exactly done as it should be is impossible.
There are simply too many random factors, accidents, accidents of birth, accidents of things dropping on people's heads, illnesses, et cetera.
we will never get to grade them. Never get to grade people as they should.
I'm drawn to a lovely quote by St. Augustin in the city of God, where he says, it's a sin to judge any man by his post in modern English. That would mean it's a sin to come to any of you who should talk to, depend on their business card.
it's not the post that should count.
And according to St. Augustine, it's only God who can really put everybody in their place and he's going to do that on the day of judgment with angels and trumpets and the skies will open.
In saying idea if your secularist person like me
but something very valuable in that idea, nevertheless.
In other words, hold your horses when you're coming to judge people.
you don't necessarily know what someone's true value is.
That is an unknown part of them and we shouldn't behave as though it is known.
There's another source of solace and comfort for all this.
When we think about failing in life, when we think about failure, one of the reasons why we fear failing is not just a loss of income, a loss of status.
What we fear is the judgment and ridicule of others.
and it exists.
The number one organ of ridicule nowadays is the newspaper.
open the newspaper any day of the week. It's full of people who've messed up their lives.
Mae'n yw'n i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'
In other words, they have failed.
and they are described as losers. Now is there any alternative to this?
I think the Western tradition shows us one glorious alternative and that is tragedy.
tragic art as it developed in the theatres of ancient Greece in the 5th century BC was essentially an art form devoted to tracing how people fail and also according them a level of sympathy which ordinary life would not necessarily accord
few years ago I was thinking about all this and I went to see the Sunday sport, a tabloid newspaper that I don't recommend you to start reading if you're not familiar with it already.
And I went to talk to them about certain of the great tragedies of Western art.
I wanted to see how they would seize the bare bones of certain stories if they came in as a news item at the news desk on a Saturday afternoon.
Mae'n bharethel oedd yn yrrwyd yn ffasnydddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddd
I asked him to write the headline for the
They came up with love crazed immigrant, kill senators, daughter, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash, splash,
I gave them that the plot line of Madame Beauvary.
Again, and Bookley wouldn't chant it to discover
the other end of the spectrum you've got tragedy and tragic art.
and I suppose I'm arguing that we should learn a little bit about what's happening in tragic art.
It would be insane to call Hamlet Alusa.
He is not a loser that he has lost.
And I think that is the message of tragedy to us and why it's a very, very important, I think.
The other thing about modern society and wide causes anxiety is that we have nothing at its centre that is non-human.
We are the first society to be living in a world where we don't worship anything other than ourselves.
We think very highly of ourselves and so we should. We put people on the moon. We don't have any extraordinary things.
and so we tend to worship ourselves.
our heroes, our human heroes.
That's a very new situation.
Most other societies have had right at their centre, the worship of something transcendent, a God, a spirit, a natural force, the universe, whatever it is, something else that is being worshipped.
We've slightly lost a habit of doing that, which is I think why we're particularly drawn to nature.
not for the sake of our health, though it's often presented that way, but because it's in a scape from the human ant hill.
it's an escape from our own competition and our own dramas.
And that's why we enjoy looking at glaciers and oceans and contemplating the earth from outside its perimeter.
We like to feel in contact with something that is non-human and that is so deeply important to us.
What I think I've been talking about really is success and failure.
And one of the interesting things about success is that we think we know what it means.
If I said to you that there's somebody behind the screen who's very, very successful, a certain ideas would immediately come to mind.
you would think that person might have made a lot of money, achieved renown in some fields.
My own theory of success and I'm somebody who's very interested in success. I really want to be successful. I'm always thinking, how can I be more successful
But as I get older, I'm also very nuanced about what that word's success might mean.
Here's an insight that I've had about success. You can't be successful at everything.
And we hear a lot about talk about work, life balance.
nonsense.
You can't have it all.
You can't.
So any vision of success has to admit what it's losing out on, where the element of losses.
I think any wise life will accept, as I say, that there is going to be an element where we're not succeeding.
And the thing about a successful life is that a lot of the time our ideas of what it would mean to live successfully are not our own.
They're sucked in from other people. Chiefly, if you're a man, you're father and if you're a woman, you're mother.
Psycho analysis has been drumming home this message for about 80 years.
no one's quite listening hard enough, but I very much believe that that's true.
And we also suck in messages from everything from the television to advertising to marketing, et cetera.
these are hugely powerful forces that define what we want and how we view ourselves.
When we're told that banking is a very respectable profession, a lot of us want to go into banking.
when banking is no longer service-pectable, we lose interest in banking.
yn ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'r hynny'r hynny'r hynny'r hynny'r hynny'r hynny'n ymthio'r hynny'r hynny'r hynny'r hynny'r hynny'r hynny
So what I want to argue for is not that we should give up on our ideas of success, but we should make sure that they are our own.
Mae'n yw'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i
because it's bad enough not getting what you want. But it's even worse to have an idea of what it is you want and find out at the end of the journey that it isn't in fact what you wanted all along.
So I'm going to end it there.
But what I really want to stress is, by all means success, yes.
But let's accept the strangeness of some ideas.
Let's probe away at on notions of success.
Let's make sure our ideas of success are truly our
Thank you very much.
Mae'n yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn yw'n rhawn
Yes, I think it's merely the randomness of the winning and losing process that I want to stress because the emphasis now it is so much is on the justice of everything and politicians always talk about justice.
Now I'm a firm believer in justice. I just think that it's impossible.
So we should do everything we can. We should do everything we can to pursue it. But at the end of the day, we should always remember that whoever is facing us, whatever has happened in their lives, there will be a strong element of the haphazard.
that I'm trying to leave room for because otherwise it can get quite claustrophobic.
I'n dwi'n bwythu'n cymbain yw'n cairn dill a gendler felos fiew'r work, wydw'r cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch'n cynch cynch'n cynch cynch'n cynch cynch cynch cynch cynch cynch cynch cynch cynch cynch cynch cynch cynch cynch cynch cynch cynch cynch cynch cynch cynch cynch cynch cynch cynch cynch cynch cynch
or do you think that you can't, but it doesn't matter that much that we're putting too much emphasis on that.
The nightmare thought is that frightening people is the best way to get work out of them and that somehow the cruel and the environment the more people will rise to the challenge.
You want to think, who would you like as your ideal dad?
And your ideal dad is somebody who's tough but gentle.
And it's a very hard line to make.
We need fathers as it were the exemplary father figures in society, avoiding the two extremes, which is the authoritarian disciplinarian on the one hand. And on the other, the lacks no rules are
option.
Thank you.
This is the exact moment that I started creating something called Tinkering School.
Tingly school is a place where kids can pick up sticks and hammers and other dangerous objects and be trusted.
trusted not to hurt themselves and trusted not to hurt others.
Tinkering school doesn't follow a set curriculum and there are no tests.
We're not trying to teach anybody any specific thing.
When the kids arrive, they're confronted with lots of stuff, wood and nails and rope and wheels and lots of tools, real tools.
It's a six day immersive experience for the kids.
And within that context, we can offer the kids time, something that seems in short supply and their over-scheduled lives.
Our goal is to ensure that they leave with a better sense of how to make things than when they arrived and the deep internal realization that you configure things out by fooling around.
Nothing ever turns out is planned.
ever.
And the kids soon learn that all projects go awry. And become a deez with the idea that every step in a project is a step closer to sweet success or gleeful calamity.
We start from doodles and sketches.
And sometimes we make real plans.
And sometimes we just start building.
Building is at the heart of the experience. Hands on deeply immersed and fully committed to the problem at hand.
Robin and I acting as collaborators keep the landscape of the projects tilted towards completion.
Success is in the doing and failures are celebrated and analyzed.
problems become puzzles and obstacles disappear.
When faced with particularly difficult setbacks or complexities of really interesting behavior emerges, decoration.
decoration of the unfinished project is a kind of conceptual incubation.
From these interludes come deep insights and amazing new approaches to solving the problems that had them frustrated just moments before.
all materials are available for use.
even those mundane, painful plastic grocery bags can become a bridge stronger than anyone imagined.
and the things that they build amazed even themselves.
Three, two, one.
Go!
to build by seven year olds. Thank you. It's been a great pleasure.
But if President Obama invited me to be the next Tsar of Mathematics, then I would have a suggestion for him that I think would vastly improve the mathematics education in this country.
and it would be easy to implement and inexpensive.
The mathematics curriculum that we have is based on a foundation of arithmetic and algebra.
And everything we learn after that is building up towards one subject.
And at the top of that pyramid, it's calculus.
And I'm here to say that I think that that is the wrong summit of the pyramid.
at the correct summit that all of our students every high school graduate should know should be statistics, probability and statistics.
Calculus is an important subject.
It's one of the great products of the human mind.
the laws of nature are written in the language of calculus.
And every student who studies math, science, engineering, economics, they should definitely learn calculus by the end of their freshman year of college.
But I'm here to say, as a professor of mathematics, that very few people actually use calculus in a conscious, meaningful way in their day-to-day lives.
on the other hand, statistics, that's a subject that you could and should use on a daily basis.
Right?
it's risky.
It's reward.
It's randomness.
it's understanding data.
I think if our students, if our high school students, if all of the American citizens knew about probability and statistics, we wouldn't be in the economic mess that we're in today.
If it's taught properly, it can be a lot of fun.
I mean, probability and statistics, it's the mathematics of games and gambling.
it's analyzing trends.
it's predicting the future.
Look, the world has changed from analog to digital.
And it's time for our mathematics curriculum to change from analog to digital, to them from the more classical continuous mathematics, to the more modern discrete mathematics, the mathematics of uncertainty, of randomness, of data in that being probability and statistics.
In summary, instead of our students learning about the techniques of calculus, I think it would be far more significant if all of them knew what two standard deviations from the mean means.
and I needed.
Thank you very much.
I want to talk about the transformed media landscape and what it means for anybody who has a message that they want to get out to anywhere in the world.
I want to illustrate that by telling a couple of stories about that transformation.
I'll start here.
Last November there was a presidential election.
You probably read something about it in the papers.
And there was some concern that in some parts of the country there might be voter suppression.
and so a plan came up to video the vote.
And the idea was that individual citizens with with phones, capable of taking photos, making video would document their polling places on the lookout for any kind of voter suppression techniques and would upload this to a central place.
that this would operate as a kind of citizen observation, that citizens would not be there just to cast individual votes, but also to help ensure the sanctity of the vote overall.
So this is a pattern that assumes we're all in this together.
What matters here isn't technical capital. It's social capital.
These tools don't get socially interesting until they get technologically boring.
It isn't when the shiny new tools show up that they're used to start permeating suicide.
It's when everybody is able to take them for granted.
because now that media is increasingly social, innovation can happen anywhere that people can take for granted the idea that we're all in this
And so we're starting to see a media landscape in which innovation is happening everywhere and moving from one spot to another.
That is a huge transformation.
Not to put too fine a point on it. The moment we're living through, the moment our historical generation is living through is the largest increase in expressive capability in human history.
That's a big claim.
I'm gonna try and back it up.
There are only four periods in the last 500 years where media has changed enough to qualify for the label Revolution. The first one is the famous one, the printing press. Moveable type oil based inks that whole complex of innovations that made printing possible and turned Europe upside down starting in the middle of the 14th.
Then a couple of hundred years ago, there was innovation in two-way communication, conversational media, first the telegraph, then the telephone.
slow text-based conversations, then real-time voice-based conversation.
Then about 150 years ago, there's revolution recorded media other than print first photos, then recorded sound, then movies all encoded into physical objects.
And finally, about 100 years ago, the harnessing of the electromagnetic spectrum to send sound and images through the radio and television.
This is the media landscape as we knew it in the 20th century.
This is what those of us of a certain age grew up with and are used to.
curious asymmetry here.
The media that's good at creating conversations is no good at creating groups.
And the media that's good at creating groups is no good at creating conversations.
If you want to have a conversation in this world, you have it with one other person.
If you want to address a group, you get the same message and you give it to everybody in the group. Whether you're doing that with a broadcasting tower or a printing press.
That was the media landscape as we had in the 20th century.
And this is what changed.
This thing that looks like a peacock hit a wind screen, it's built Cheswix map of the internet.
He traces the edges of the individual networks and then color cozy.
The internet is the first medium in history that has native support for groups and conversation at the same time.
where's the phone gave us the one to one pattern and television radio magazines books gave us the one to many pattern. The internet gives us the many to many patterns.
For the first time, media is natively good at supporting these kinds of conversations.
That's one of the big changes.
The second big change, right? Is there's all media gets digitized? The internet also becomes the mode of carriage for all other media, meaning the phone calls migrate to the internet. Magazine's migrate to the internet. Movies migrate to the internet.
And that means that every medium is right next door to every other medium.
Put another way. Media is increasingly less just a source of information as increasingly more a site of coordination. Because groups that see or hear or watch or listen to something can now gather around and talk to each other as well.
And the third big change, right, is that members of the former audiences, Dan Gilmour, call them, can now also be producers and not consumers.
Every time a new consumer joins this media landscape, a new producer joins as well because the same equipment, phones, computers, let you consume and produce.
It's as if when you bought a book, they threw in the printing press for free. It's like you had a phone that could turn into a radio if you pressed the right buttons.
That is a huge change in the media landscape we're used to.
and it's not just internet or no internet.
We've had the internet in its public form for almost 20 years now and it's still changing as the media becomes more social.
It's still changing patterns, even among groups who know how to deal with the internet well.
Second story.
Last May, China and the Sichuan province had a terrible earthquake, 7.9 magnitude, massive destruction in a wide area as the Richter scale has it.
And the earthquake was reported as it was happening.
People were texting from their phones.
They were taking photos of buildings.
They were taking videos of building shaking.
They're uploading it to QQ, China's largest internet service.
They were twittering it.
And so as the quake was happening, the news was reported.
And because of the social connections, Chinese students coming elsewhere and going to school or businesses in the rest of the world opening offices in China, they were people listening all over the world hearing this news.
the BBC got their first wind of the Chinese Quake from Twitter.
Twitter announced the existence of the quake several minutes before the U.S. Geological Survey had anything up online for anybody to think.
The last time China had a quake of that magnitude. It took them three months to admit that it had happened.
Now they might have liked to have done that here. Rather than seeing these pictures go up online.
But they weren't given that choice because their own citizens beat them to the punch.
Even the government learned of the earthquake from their own citizens rather than from the Shenwan News Agency.
and this stuff rippled like wildfire.
For a while there, the top 10 most clicked links on Twitter, the global short messaging service, nine of the top 10 links were about the quake.
people co-lating information, pointing people to new sources, pointing people to the US Geological Survey.
The tenth one was kittens on a treadmill, but that's the internet for you.
But nine of the 10 in those first hours
and within half a day, donations sites were up and donations were pouring in from all around the world.
So this is an incredible coordinated global response.
So the Chinese, then, in one of their periods of media openness, decided that they were going to let it go, that they were going to let this citizen reporting fly.
En dan is het niet open.
People began to figure out in the Sichuan province that the reason so many school buildings had collapsed because tragically the earthquake happened during a school day. The reason so many school buildings collapsed is that corrupt officials had taken bribes to allow those buildings to be built to less than code.
And so they started the citizen journal started reporting that as well.
And there was even incredible picture
may have seen it on the front page in the old times.
a local official literally prostrated herself in the street in front of these protesters in order to get them to go away.
Essentially to say, we will do anything to play kids. You just please stop protesting in public. But these are people who have been radicalized because thanks to the one child policy. They have lost everyone in their next generation.
someone who's seen the death of a single child, right? Now has nothing to lose.
and so the protests kept going.
And finally, the Chinese crackdown.
That was enough of citizen media.
And so they began to arrest the protesters.
they begin to shut down the media that the protests were happening.
China is probably the most successful manager of Internet censorship in the world. Using something that's widely described as the great firewall of China.
And the great firewall of China is a set of observation points that assume that media is produced by professionals. It mostly comes in from the outside world. It comes in in relatively sparse chunks and it comes in relatively slowly.
And because of those four characteristics, they are able to filter it as it comes into the country.
But like the Magino line, the Great Firewall of China was facing in the wrong direction for this challenge. Because not one of those four things was true in this environment.
The media was produced locally.
was produced by Amateurs
was produced quickly.
and it was produced at such an incredible abundance that there was no way to filter it as it appears.
And so now, the Chinese government who for a dozen years has quite successfully filtered the web is now in the position of having the decide whether to allow or shut down entire services, right? Because the transformation to amateur media is so enormous that they can't deal with it any other way.
In fact, that is happening this week.
On the 20th anniversary of Tiananmen, they just two days ago announced that they were simply shutting down access to Twitter because there was no way to filter it other than that.
they had to turn the spigot entirely off.
Now these changes don't just affect people who want to censor messages.
They also affect people who want to send messages. Because this is really a transformation. The ecosystem is a whole not just a particular stretch.
the classic media problem from the 20th centuries. How does an organization have a message that they want to get out to a group of people distributed at the edges of the network?
and here's the 20th century answer.
bundle up the message.
Send the same message to everyone.
National Message.
targeted individuals.
relatively sparse number of producers.
very expensive to do so there's not a lot of competition.
This is how you reach people.
all of that is over.
We are increasingly in a landscape where media is global, social, ubiquitous, and cheap.
Now, most organizations that are trying to send messages to the outside world, to the distributed collection of the audience are now used to this change.
The audience can talk back.
Let's little freaky.
but you can get used to it after a while as people are doing.
But that's not the really crazy change that we're living in in the middle of.
really crazy change is here. It's the fact that there are no longer disconnected from each other. The fact that former consumers and now producers, the fact that the audience can talk directly to one another, because there's a lot more amateurs than professionals. And because the size of the network, the complexity of the network, is actually the square of the number of participants, meaning that the network, when it grows large, grows very, very large.
As recently as last decade, most of the media that was available for public consumption was produced by profession.
Those days are over, never to return.
It is the green line now that of the source of the freak. Springs going to be my last story.
We saw some of the most imaginative use of social media during the Obama campaign.
And I don't mean most of the views in politics. I mean most of the management of views ever.
And one of the things Obama did was famously the Obama campaign did was they famously put up my Barack Obama dot com my bow dot com and millions of citizens rushed in to participate and to try and figure out how to help
any brandable kind of stations sprung up there.
And then this time last year Obama announced that he was going to change his vote on Fights at the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.
He had said in January he would not sign a bill that granted telecom immunity for possibly warrantless spying on American persons.
by the summer in the middle of the general campaign. He said I thought about the issue more.
I've changed my mind.
I'm going to vote for this bill. And many of his own supporters on his own site went very publicly berserk.
It was sender Obama when they created it.
They changed the name later.
Please get FISO right. Within days of this group being created, it was the fastest growing group on mybo.com within weeks of it being created. It was the largest group.
And Obama had to issue oppressors.
he had to issue a reply.
And he said essentially, I've considered the issue.
I understand what you're coming from.
But having considered it all, I'm still going to vote the way I'm going to vote.
But I wanted to reach out to you and say, I understand that you disagree with me and I'm going to take my lumps on this one. This didn't please anybody.
But then a funny thing happened in the conversation.
people in that group realized that Obama had never shut them down.
Nobody in the Obama campaign had ever tried to hide the group or make it harder to join to deny its existence to delete it to take it off the site.
They had understood that they're wrong with mybode.com as to convene their supporters, but not to control their supporters.
And that is the kind of discipline that it takes to make really mature use of this media.
media, the media landscape that we knew. As familiar as it was as easy, conceptually, as it was to deal with the idea, the professionals broadcast messages to amateurs, right, is increasingly slipping away.
In a world where media is global, social, ubiquitous, and cheap. In a world of media where the former audience are now increasingly full participants. In that world, media is less and less often about crafting a single message to be consumed by individuals.
It's more and more often a way of creating an environment for convening and supporting groups.
And the choice we face, I mean anybody who has a message they want to have heard anywhere in the world, isn't whether that's the median environment we want to operate in.
That's the median environment we've got.
The question we all face now is how can we make best use of this medium?
even though it means changing the way we've always done it. Thank you very much.
I was thinking about my place in the universe and about my first thought about what infinity might mean when I was a child.
And I thought that if infinity of time could reach forwards and backwards infinitely, doesn't that mean that every point in time is really infinitely small and therefore somewhat meaningless.
So we don't really have a place in the universe as far as on a timeline.
but nothing else does either.
therefore every moment really is the most important moment that's ever happened including this moment right now
So therefore, this music you're about to hear is maybe the most important music you'll ever hear.
someone like the curving of the universe.
I don't know what it is.
The beginning of any collaboration starts with the conversation.
and I would like to share with you the how some of the bits of the conversation that we started with.
I grew up in a large cabin and Washington State with too much time in my hands.
and Encinic Switzerland for me.
I was had a passion for alternative vehicles.
This is a land yacht racing across the desert in Nevada.
combination of winterfing and skiing into this invention there.
and also had an interest in dangerous inventions.
This is a 100,000 volt Tesla coil that I built in my bedroom, much to the dismay of my mother.
to do this may of my mother. This is dangerous teenage fashion right there.
So when power solar power we had a lot to talk about.
So we decided to do a special project together.
And we made a baby.
Can you bring out our baby?
It goes 150 miles an hour.
It's twice the range of any electric motorcycle.
We're really the exciting thing about a motorcycle is just the beautiful integration of engineering and design.
It's got an amazing user experience.
was a wonderful work in the theater.
mission motors.
Thank you.
Thank you Ted.
Thank you, Chris.
Let me talk about India through the evolution of ideas.
Now I believe this is an interesting way of looking at it because in every society, especially in open democratic society, it's only an idea stake route that things change.
only ideas lead to ideology, lead to policies that lead to actions.
In 1930, this country went through a great depression, which led to all the ideas of the state and social security and all other things that happened in Roosevelt's time.
the 1980s we had the recon revolution which led to deregulation
And today after the global economic crisis, there were whole news set of rules about how the state should intervene.
So ideas change states.
And I looked at India and said, really there are four kinds of ideas which I really make an impact on India.
The first to my mind is what I call as the idea that I've arrived. These ideas have brought together something which has made India happen the way it is today.
The second set of ideas I call ideas in progress, those are ideas which have been accepted but not implemented yet.
The third set of ideas are what I call as ideas that we argue about. Those are the ideas where we have a fight, an ideological battle about how to do things.
And the fourth thing which I believe is most important is the ideas that we need to anticipate because when you're a developing country in the world where you can see the problems that other countries are having, you can actually anticipate what they did and do things very differently.
Now in India's case, I believe there are six ideas which are responsible for where it has come today.
The first is really the notion of people.
In the 60s and 70s, we thought of people as a burden.
with all the people as a liability.
Today we talk of people as an asset.
We're gonna go people as human capital.
And I believe this change in the mindset of looking at people from something as a burden to human capital has been one of the fundamental changes in the Indian mindset.
And this change in the thing of human capital is linked to the fact that India is going through a demographic dividend.
as healthcare improves, as infant mortality goes down, fertilize, start dropping.
and India is experiencing that.
India is going to have a lot of young people with a demographic dividend for the next 30 years.
And what is unique about this demographic dividend is that India will be the only country in the world to have this demographic dividend.
In other words, it will be the only young country in an aging world.
And this is very important.
At the same time, if you peel away the demographic dividend in India, there are actually two demographic curves.
One is in the south and the west of India which is already fully going to be fully expensed by 2015 because in that part of the country
There is the fortity rate is almost equal to that of a West European country. And then there is a whole northern India which is going to be the bulk of the future demographic dividend.
But a demographic dividend is only as good as the investment in your human capital.
Only if the people have education, they have good health, they have infrastructure, they have roads to go to work, they have lights to study at night. Only in those cases can you really get the benefit of a demographic dividend.
In other words, if you don't really invest in a human capital, the same demographic dividend can be a demographic disaster.
And therefore, India is at that critical point with either it can leverage its demographic dividend or it can lead to a demographic disaster.
The second thing in India has been the chain in the role of entrepreneurs.
When India got independence, entrepreneurs were seen as a bad lot as people who would exploit.
But today, after 60 years, because the rise of entrepreneurship, entrepreneurs have become role models and they are contributing hugely to the society.
this change has contributed to the vitality and the whole economy.
The third big thing I believe that a strain in India is attitude towards the English language.
English language was seen as a language of the imperialists.
But today with globalization without sourcing, English has become a language of aspiration.
And this has made something that everybody wants to learn.
And the fact that we have English is now becoming a huge strategic asset.
The next thing is technology.
40 years back computers were seen as something which was forbidding, something which is intimidating, something that reduced jobs.
Today we are in a country which sells 8 million mobile phones a month, of which 90% of those mobile phones are pre-paid phones because people don't have credit history.
40% of those prepaid phones are recharge at less than 20 cents at each recharge.
that is the scale at which technology has liberated and made it accessible.
and therefore technology has gone from being seen as something forbidding and intimidating to something with the empowering.
20 years back when they were the report on bank computation, they didn't call them, they didn't name the report as the report on computers, they called them as ledger posting machines. They didn't want the unions to believe that they were actually computers.
And when they wanted to have more powerful computers, they called them advanced ledger posting machines. So for a long way from those days where the telephone has become an instrument of empowerment and really has changed the way Indians think of technology.
And then I think the other point is that Indians today are far more comfortable with globalization.
Again, after having lived for more than 200 years under the East India Company and under Imperial rule, Indians had a very natural reaction towards globalization, believing it was a form of imperialism.
But today as Indian companies go abroad, as Indians come and work all over the world, Indians have gained a lot more confidence and have realized that globalization is something they can participate in.
And the fact that the demographics are in our favor, because we are the only young country in the aging world, makes globalization all the more attractive to Indians.
And finally India has had the deepening of its democracy.
democracy came to India 60 years back. It was an elite concept.
It was a bunch of people who wanted to bring in democracy because they wanted to bring in the idea of universal voting and parliament and constitution and so forth.
But today, democracy has become a bottom of process where everybody has realized the benefits of behaving a voice, the benefits of being an open society.
And therefore democracy has become embedded.
I believe these six factors, the rise of the notion of population as human capital, the rise of Indian entrepreneurs, the rise of English as a language of aspiration, technology as something empowering, globalization as a positive factor, and the deepening of democracy has contributed to why India is today growing at race, it has never seen before.
But having said that, then we come to what I call as the ideas in progress.
Those are the ideas where there is no argument in our society, but you're not able to implement those things.
And really there are four things here.
One is the question of education.
For some reason, whatever reason lack of money, lack of priorities because of religion having an oral culture. Time and education was never given the focus it required.
But now I believe it's reached a point where it has become very important.
Unfortunately, the government schools are not function. So children are going to private schools today.
even in the slums of India more than 50% of urban kids are going into private schools.
So there is a big challenge in getting the schools to work.
But having said that, there's an enormous desire among everybody, including the poor to educate the children.
So I believe primary education in the idea which has arrived but not yet implemented.
Similarly, infrastructure. For a long time, infrastructure was not a priority.
Those of you have been doing they have seen that.
It certainly not like China.
But today I believe finally infrastructure is something which is agreed upon and which people want to implement.
It is reflected in a political statement.
20 years back, the political slogan was Roti Kapraha Makhan, which meant food, clothing and shelter. And today's political slogan is, Biji Lai Sadaq Pani, which means electricity, water and roads. And that is a change in the mindset where infrastructure is now accepted
So I do believe this an idea which is arrived but simply not implemented.
The third thing is again, cities.
because Gandhi believed in villages and because the British ruled from the cities and therefore narrow thought of New Delhi as an unIndian city.
For a long time we have neglected us cities.
and that is reflected in the kinds of situations that you see.
But today finally after economic reforms and economic growth, I think the notion that cities are engines of economic growth, cities are engines of creativity, cities are engines of innovation have finally been accepted.
And I think now you're seeing the mood towards improving our cities.
Again, an idea which has arrived but not yet implemented.
The final thing is the notion of India as a single market because when you didn't think of India as a market you didn't really bother about a single market because it didn't really matter.
And therefore you had a situation where every state had its own market for products.
Every province had its own market for agriculture.
And increasingly now the policy is of taxation and infrastructure and all that are moving towards creating India as a single market.
So, there is a form of internal globalization which is happening which is as important as external globalization.
And these four factors I believe, the ones of primary education, infrastructure, urbanization and single market in my view are ideas in India which have been accepted but not implemented.
Then we have what I believe are the ideas in conflict.
The ideas that we argue about.
And these are the arguments we have which cause gridlock.
And what are those ideas?
One is, I think, our ideological issues.
Because of the historical Indian background in the caste system and because of the fact that there have been many people who have been left out in the cold a lot of the politics is about how to make sure that we address that
and it leads to reservations and other techniques.
It's also related to the way that we subsidize our people and all the left and right arguments that we have.
lot of the Indian problems are related to the ideology of caste and other things.
This policy is causing gridlock.
This is one of the factors which needs to be resolved.
The second one is the Labour policies that we have which make it so difficult for entrepreneurs to create standardized jobs in companies that 93% of Indian labour is in the unorganized sector.
They have no benefits. They have no, you know, they don't have social security, they don't have pension, they don't have health care, none of those things.
This needs to be fixed because unless you can bring these people into the formal workforce, you will end up creating a whole lot of people who are completely disenfranchised.
Therefore, we need to create a new set of label laws which are not as honest as they are today.
At the same time, give a lot more people to be in the formal sector and create the jobs for the millions of people that we need to create jobs for.
And the third thing is our higher education.
Indian Harajuku Station is completely regulated.
It's very difficult to start a private university.
It's very difficult for a foreign university to come to India.
And as a result of that, our higher education is simply not keeping pace with India's demands.
And that is leading to a lot of problems which we need to address.
But most important I believe are the ideas we need to anticipate.
And here India can look at what is happening in the west and elsewhere and look at what is needed to be done.
The first thing is we very fortunate that technology is the point where it is much more advanced than when other countries had the development.
So we can use technology for governance.
You can just acknowledge you for direct benefits.
You can use technology for transparency and many other things.
The second thing is the healthy shoe.
India has equally horrible problems of the highest state of cardiac issues, the highest state of diabetes, the highest state of obesity.
So there is no point in replacing a set of poor country diseases with a set of rich country diseases.
And therefore we do rethink the whole way we look at health.
and we really need to put in place a strategy so that we don't go to the other extreme of health.
Similarly, today in the West, you're seeing the problem of entitlement, the cost of social security, the cost of Medicaid, the cost of Medicaid.
And therefore, when you're a young country, again, you have a chance to put in place a modern pension system so that you don't create entitlement problems as you grow old.
And then again India does not have the luxury of making its environment dirty because it has to marry environment and development.
just to give an idea if the world has to stabilize at something like 20 gigatons per year.
on a population of 9 billion and average carbon emission will have to be about 2 tons per year.
India has already a two-transperiard.
But India grows at something like 8% it will encompass your personal growth to 16 times the 2050.
So we're saying income growing at 16 times and no growth in carbon.
And therefore, we fundamentally rethink the way we look at the environment, the way we look at energy, the way we create whole new paradigms of development.
Now, why did this matter to you?
Why, why does what's happening 10,000 miles away, matter to all of you?
Number one, this matters because this represents more than a billion people.
a billion people, one-sixth of the world population.
It matters because this is a democracy.
And it's important to prove that growth and democracy are not incompatible. That you can have democracy, that you can have an open society, and you can have growth.
It's important because if you solve these problems, you can solve the problems of poverty in the world.
It's important because you need it to solve the world's environment problem.
If we're really going to come to a point, we want to put a cap on a carbon emission, we want to really lower the use of energy. It has to be resolved in countries like India.
You know, if you look at the development in the West over 200 years, the average growth may have been about 2%.
Here we are talking about countries growing at 8 to 9%.
And that makes a huge difference.
When India was growing at about 3.5% and the population was growing at 2%. Its per capita income was doubling every 45 years.
when the economic growth goes to 8%, and population growth drops to 1.5%, then per capita income is doubling every 9 years.
In other words, you're certainly fast forwarding this whole process of a billion people going to prosperity.
And you must have a clear strategy which is important for India and important for the world.
That's why I think all of you should be equally concerned with it as I am.
Thank you very much.
last year at TED I gave an introduction to the LA.
and I promise to come back and give you an update on how that machine worked.
So this is it.
For those of you that weren't there, the LHC is the largest scientific experiment ever attempted 27 kilometers into conference.
Ysdraud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yw'r gw
So nothing, you know I'm vicious.
This is the machine below Geneva.
Mae'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
This is the one I work on.
oedd yw'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n ddyn ni'n
Spectaq y la pich y herwif atlas under constructions o y y'n cyfysguel
Ond y 10 byfysd yn ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymne
and this picture was taken by Atlas.
yn ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymneud ymne
Mae'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
Yn yw'r gwneud yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ymthio, yn ym
I don't know whether this got the biggest cheer or this when some went on to Google and saw the front page was like that.
It means we made cultural impact as well as scientific impact.
Mae'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
Those wires carry 13,000 amps when the machine's working at full power.
Now the engineers, among them, will look at them and say, no, they don't.
mae'n yw'n i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'
Mae'n yw'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n ddwy'n dd
Mae'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n y
oedd y wneud y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren oedd yn y ffren
Mae'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
Mae'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n y
So we damaged about 50 of the magnets.
We had to take them out, which we did.
We've reconditioned them all, fix them.
They're all on their way back on the ground now.
mae ddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddd
Mae'n yw'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymth
Mae'n yw'n i'n gwneud yn yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n
It's easy to refuse.
Mae'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
O'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r o'r
I've been working on issues of poverty for more than 20 years. And so it's ironic that the problem that and question that I most grapple with is how you actually define poverty.
What does it mean?
So often we look at dollar terms, people making less than a dollar or two or three a day.
and yet the complexity of poverty really has to look at income as only one variable.
because really it's a condition about choice and the lack of freedom.
And I hadn't experienced that really deep and dilucidated for me the understanding that I have.
It was in Kenya and I want to share it with you.
I was with my friends who's a myzellist photographer in the Mathari Valley slums.
Number three valley is one of the oldest slums in Africa.
It's about three miles out of Nairobi and it's a mile long and about two tenths of a mile wide. Where over half a million people live crammed in these little tin tracks, generation after generation, renting them, often eight or ten people to a room.
And it's known for prostitution violence drugs a hard place to grow up.
And when we were walking through the narrow alleys, it was literally impossible not to step in the raw sewage and the garbage alongside the little homes.
But at the same time, it was also impossible not to see the human right-hality, the aspiration and the ambition of the people who live there, women washing their babies, washing their clothes, hanging them out to dry.
I met this woman, Mama Rose, who has rented that little tin shack for 32 years, where she lives with her seven children.
force sleep in one twin bed and three sleep on the mud in L'Unolium floor.
And she keeps them on school by selling water from that kiosk and from selling soap and bread from the little store inside.
It was also the day after the inauguration and I was reminded how Mithari is still connected to the globe.
and I would see kids on the street corners and they'd say, oh, mommy, he's our brother and I'd say, well, oh, mommy's my brother. So that makes you my brother too. And they would look quizzically at them, but like, high five. And it was here that I met Jane.
It was struck immediately by the kindness and the gentleness and her face, and I asked her to tell me her story.
She started off by telling me her dream.
She said I had two.
My first dream was to be a doctor. And the second was to marry a good man who would stay with me and my family because my mother was a single mom and couldn't afford to pay for school fees.
So I had to give up the first stream. And I focused on the second. She got married when she was 18. Had a baby right away.
And when she turned 20, found herself pregnant with the second child, her mom died and her husband left her married and other woman.
So she was again in Mithari with no income, no skillset, no money.
and so she ultimately turned to prostitution.
It wasn't organized in the way we often think of it.
she would go into the city at night with about 20 girls. Look for work and sometimes come back with a few shillings or sometimes with nothing.
and she said, you know, the poverty wasn't so bad.
that was the humiliation and the embarrassment of it all. In 2001, her life changed.
She had a girlfriend who had heard about this organization, Jami Bora, that would lend money to people no matter how poor you were, as long as you provided, and the commensurate man in savings.
And so she spent a year to save $50 and started borrowing. And over time, she was able to buy a sewing machine.
she started tailoring.
and that turned into what she does now, which is to go into the second hand clothing markets. And for about $3.25 she buys an old ball gown.
Some of them might be once you gave.
And she repurposes them with frills and ribbons and makes these frothy confections that she sells to women for their daughters, sweet 16 or first-to-the-communion, those milestones in her life that people want to celebrate all along the economic spectrum.
and she does really good business.
In fact, I watched her walk through the streets, hooking.
And before you knew it, there was a crowd of women around her buying these dresses.
And I reflected as I was watching her sell the dresses and also the jewelry that she makes that now Jane makes more than $4 a day.
And by many definitions, she is no longer poor.
but she still lives in the Thore Valley.
And so she can't move out.
She lives with all of that insecurity and in fact, in January during the ethnic riots, she was chased from her home and had to find a new shack in which she would live.
Jami Bora understands that and understands that when we're talking about poverty, we've got to look at people all along the economic spectrum.
And so with patient capital for Macumen and other organizations, loans and investments that will go the long-term with them. They built a low-cost housing development about an hour outside Nairobi Central
and they designed it from the perspective of customers like Jane herself, insisting on responsibility and accountability.
So she has to give 10% of the mortgage of the total value or about $400 in savings.
and then they match her mortgage to what she paid in rent for her little shanty.
And in the next couple of weeks, she's going to be among the first 200 families to move into this development.
When I asked her if she feared anything or whether she would miss anything from a thari, she said, what would I fear that I haven't confronted already?
and HIV positive.
I've dealt with it all. And she said, what would I miss?
You think I will miss the violence or the drugs?
The lack of privacy.
She said, if you gave me 10 minutes, my bags would be packed. And so I said, well, what about your dreams? And she said, well, you know, my dreams don't look exactly like I thought they would when I was a little girl.
But if I think about it, I thought I wanted a husband, but what I really wanted was a family that was loving.
And I fiercely love my children and they love me back. And she said, I thought I wanted to be a doctor, but what I really wanted to be was somebody who served and healed and cured.
And so I feel so blessed with everything that I have. But two days a week I go and I counsel HIV patients.
And I said, look at me.
You are not dead.
You're still alive.
And if you are still alive, you have to serve. And she said, I'm not a doctor who gives out pills.
But maybe me I give out something better because I give them hope. And in the middle of this economic crisis, we're so many of us are inclined to pull in with fear. I think we're well suited to take a cue from Jane and reach out, recognizing that being poor doesn't mean being ordinary.
because when systems are broken, like the ones that we're seeing around the world, it's an opportunity for invention and for innovation.
It's an opportunity to truly build a world where we can extend services and products to all human beings so that they can make decisions and choices for themselves.
I truly believe it's where dignity starts.
We owe it to the James of the World.
and just as important we owe it to ourselves.
Thank you.
Some 17 years ago, I became allergic to delisare.
My doctors told me that my lung capacity had gone down to 70 percent and it was killing me.
With the help of IIT, Terry and learning from NASA, we discovered that there are three basic green plants, common green plants with which we can grow, all the fresh air we need indoors to give us healthy.
We've also found that you can reduce the fresh air requirements into the building while maintaining industry into air quality standards.
The three plans are Arika Pham, Madhan Lostang and Maniplaam.
the botanical names or in front of you.
Arika Pam is a plant which removes CO2 and converts it into oxygen.
We need four shoulder high plants per person and in terms of plant care we need to wipe the leaves every day and daily and perhaps once we can clean our cities.
We have to grow them in Vemi-Menuar, which is derived or hydroponics, and take them outdoors every three to four months.
The second plant is Motherland Law's tongue which is again a very common plant and we call it a bedroom plant because it converts CO2 into oxygen at night.
and we need 6 to 8 waste-5 plants per person.
The third plant is money plant and this is again a very common plant, preferably grows in hydroponics.
And this particular plant removes formalty hides another volatile chemicals.
With these three plants you can grow all the fresh air you need.
In fact, you could be in a bottle with a cap on top and you would not die at all and you would not need any fresh air.
We have tried these plants at our own building in Delhi which is of 50,000 square feet, 20 year old building.
and it has close to 1200 such plans for 300 occupants.
A studies have found that there is a 42% probability of one's blood oxygen going up by 1% if one stays indoors in this building for 10 hours.
The government of India has discovered or published a study to show that this is the helliest building in New Delhi.
And the study showed that there is a compared to other buildings, there is a reduced incidence of I-Earitation by 52%, respiratory systems by 34%, headaches by 24%, lung impairment by 12% and asthma by 9%.
And this study has been published on September 8, 2008 and it's available on the garment of India website.
Our experience points to an amazing increase in human productivity by over 20% by using these plants.
and also reduction in energy requirements and buildings by an outstanding 15% because you need less fresh air.
We now replicating this in a 1.75 million square feet building which will have 60,000 endo plants.
Why is this important?
It is also important for environmental and the world's energy requirements are expected to grow by 30% of the next decade.
40% of the world's energy is taken up by buildings currently and 60% of the world's population will be living in buildings in cities with population of over 1 million in the next 15 years.
and there is a growing preference for living and working in air conditions places.
Be the change you want to see in the world, Sad Matmagadhi.
and thank you for listening.
I was speaking to a group of about 300 kids, ages six to eight at a children's museum, and I brought with me a bag full of legs, similar to the kinds of things you see up here, and had them laid out on a table for the kids.
And for my experience, kids are naturally curious about what they don't know, we don't understand or is far into them.
They only learn to be frightened of those differences when an adult influences them to behave that way. And maybe sensors that natural curiosity or you know, reins in the question asking for the in the hopes of them being polite little kids.
So I mean, I could just picture the first grade teacher out in the lobby with these unruly kids saying, now whatever you do, don't stare at her legs. And of course, that's the point.
That's why I was there. I wanted to invite them to look and explore.
So I made a deal with the adults that the kids could come in without any adults for two minutes on their own.
The doors open, the kids descend on this table of legs and they are poking and prodding and they're wiggling toes and they're trying to put their full weight on the sprinting leg to see what happens with that.
And I said, kids, really quickly. I woke up this morning. I decided I wanted to be able to jump over a house. Nothing too big, two or three stories. But if you could think of any animal, any superhero, any cartoon character, anything you can dream up right now, what kind of legs would you build me? And immediately, a voice shot at Kangaroo. No, no, no.
should be a frog. No, it should be go go gadget. No, no, no.
It should be the incredible and other things that I don't familiar with.
And then when eight-year-old said, hey, why wouldn't you want to fly to? And the whole room, including me, was like, yeah. And just like that, I went from being a woman that these kids would have been trained to see as disabled to somebody who had potential that their bodies didn't have yet.
Somebody that might even be super able.
Interesting.
The some of you actually saw me a TED 11 years ago.
There's been a lot of talk about how life-changing this conference is for both speakers and attendees and I am no exception.
Ted literally was a launch pad to the next decade of my life's exploration.
At the time, the legs I presented were groundbreaking and prosthetics.
I had woven carbon fiber sprinting legs, modeled out at the back of a cheetah, which you may have seen on stage yesterday.
And also these very lifelike intrinsically painted silicon legs.
So at the time it was my opportunity to put a call out to innovators outside the traditional medical prosthetic community to come bring their talent to the science and to the art of building legs.
that we can stop compartmentalizing form, function, and aesthetic, and assigning them different values.
We'll lucky for me. A lot of people answered that call.
And the journey started, funny enough, with a Ted Conference attendee, Chief Pearlman, who hopefully is in the audience somewhere today.
She was the editor of a magazine called ID and she gave me a cover story.
This started an incredible journey.
Curious encounters were happening at the time. I've been accepting numerous invitations to speak on the design of the Chito legs around the world.
and people would come up to me after the conference after my talk. Men and women.
And the conversation would go something like this. You know Amy, you're very attractive.
You don't look disabled. I thought, well, that's amazing, because I don't feel disabled. And it really opened my eyes to this conversation that could be explored about beauty.
What does a beautiful woman have to look like?
What is a sexy body?
and interestingly, from an identity standpoint, what does it mean to have a disability?
I mean, people Pamela Anderson has more prosthetic in her body than I do.
Nobody calls her disabled.
So this magazine through the hands of graphic designer Peter Stavl went to fashion designer Alexander McQueen and photographer Nick Knight, who were also interested in exploring that conversation.
So three months after Ted, I found myself on a plane to London doing my first fashion shoot, which resulted in this cover, fashion, able.
Three months after that, I did my first runway show for Alexandria McQueen on a pair of hand carved wooden legs made from solid ash.
Nobody knew everyone thought they were wooden boots.
Actually I have a month's stage with me. Great vines, my Noli is truly stunning.
poetry matters.
Poetry is what elevates the banal and neglected object to a realm of art.
It can transform the thing that might have made people fearful into something that invites them to look and look a little longer and maybe even understand.
I learned this firsthand with my next adventure.
the artist, Matthew Barney, and his film opus called The Cream Master Cycle. This is where it really hit home for me that my legs could be wearable sculpture.
And even at this point, I started to move away from the need to replicate humanness as the only aesthetic ideal.
So we made what people lovingly referred to as glass legs even though they're actually optically clear polyurethane aka bowling ball material.
Have you?
Then we made these legs that are cast in soil with potato root system growing in them and beet roots at the top and I'm very lovely brass toe.
It's a good place to buy that one.
Then another character was a half woman half Chita, a little homage to my life as an athlete.
14 hours of prosthetic makeup to get into a creature that had articulated paws, claws, and a tail that whipped around like a gecko.
And then another pair of legs we collaborated on with these. Look like jellyfish legs, also polyurethane.
And the only purpose of these legs, conserved, outside the context of the film is to provoke the senses and ignite the imagination.
So whimsy matters.
Today, I have over a dozen pair, a prosthetic legs that various people have made for me. And with them, I have different negotiations of the terrain under my feet, and I can change my height. I have a variable of five different heights.
today I'm 6-1.
And I had these legs made a little over a year ago, and a door for the pedic in England. And when I brought them home to Manhattan, my first night out in the town, I went to a very fancy party.
And a girl was there who has known me for years at my normal 5.8.
her mouth dropped open when she saw me and she went, but you're so tall! And I said I knew
isn't it fun? I mean, it's a little bit like wearing stillt on stillt, but I have an entirely new relationship to door jams that I never expected I would ever have.
And I was having fun with that.
It's not fair that you can change your height as you want it.
And that's when I knew, that the conversation with society has changed profoundly in this last decade.
It is no longer a conversation about overcoming deficiency.
It's a conversation about augmentation.
It's a conversation about potential.
A prosthetic limb doesn't represent the need to replace loss anymore.
It can stand as a symbol that the wearer has the power to create whatever it is that they want to create in that space.
So people that society once considered to be disabled can now become the architects of their own identities and indeed continue to change those identities by designing their bodies from a place of empowerment.
And what is exciting to me so much right now is that by combining cutting edge technology robotics, bionics with the age old poetry we are moving closer to understanding our collective humanity.
I think that if we wanted to discover the full potential in our humanity, we need to celebrate those heartbreaking strengths and those glorious disabilities that we all have.
I think of Shakespeare's Shilok. If you prick us, do we not bleed? And if you tickle us, do we not laugh? It is our humanity and all the potential within it that makes us beautiful.
Thank you.
I've been intrigued by this question of whether we could evolve or develop a sixth sense. A sense that would give us seamless access and easy access to metal information or information that may exist somewhere that may be relevant to help us make the right decision about whatever this we're coming across.
And some of you may argue well, don't today's cell phones do that already, but I would say no.
But when you meet someone here at TED, and this is the top networking place, of course, of the year, you don't shake somebody's hand, and then say, can you hold on for a moment while I take out my phone and Google you, or when you go to the supermarket and you're standing there in that huge aisle of different types of toilet papers, you don't take out your cellphone and open a browser and go to a website to try to decide which of these different toilet papers is the most ecologically responsible purchase to make.
So we don't really have easy access to all this relevant information that can just help us make optimal decisions about what to do next and what actions to take.
And so my research group at the Media Lab has been developing a series of inventions to give us access to this information in a sort of easy way without requiring that the user changes any of their behavior.
And I'm here to unveil our latest effort and most successful effort so far, which is still very much a work in process.
I'm actually wearing the device right now and we sort of cobbled it together with components that are off the shelf and that by the way only cost $350 at this point in time.
I'm wearing a camera just a simple webcam, a portable battery powered rejection system with a little mirror.
the components communicate to my self on in my pocket which access the communication and computation device.
And in the video here we see my student Pranath mystery who's really the genius who's been implementing and designing this whole system.
And we see how this system lets him walk up to any surface and start using his hands to interact with the information that is projected in front of him.
The system tracks the four significance fingers.
This case he's wearing simple marker caps and you may recognize
But if you want a more stylish version, you could also paint your nails in different colors.
And the camera basically tracks these four fingers and recognizes any gestures that he's making. So he can just go to, for example, a map of Long Beach, zoom in and out, etc.
The system also recognizes iconic gestures such as the take a picture gesture and then takes a picture of whatever is in front of you.
And when he then walks back to the media lab, he can just go up to any wall and project all the pictures that he's taken, sort through them and organize them and resize them, etc. Again, using all natural gestures.
So some of you most likely were here two years ago and saw the demo by the Jeff Han or some of you may think, well, it doesn't just look like the Microsoft Surface table. And yes, you also interact using natural gestures, both hands, et cetera.
But the difference here is that you can use any surface. You can walk up to any surface, including your hand. If nothing else is available. And interact with this project data.
Another even more important difference is that in mass production, this would not cost more tomorrow than today's cellphones and would actually not be a bigger package and could look a lot more stylish than this version that I'm wearing around my neck.
But other than letting some of you live out your fantasy of looking as cool as Tom Cruise in minority report, the reason why we're really excited about his device is that it really can act as one of these six sense devices that gives you relevant information about whatever is in front of you.
So we see Pranath here going into the supermarket and he's shopping for some paper towels.
And as he picks up a product, the system can recognize the product that he is picking up using either image recognition or marker technology and give him the green light or orange light.
he can ask for additional information.
So this particular choice here is a particularly good choice given his personal criteria.
Some of you may want the toilet paper with the most bleaching it rather than the most ecologically responsible choice.
If he picks up a book in the bookstore, he can get a Amazon rating, gets projected right on the cover of the book.
This is Kwan's book, our previous speaker, which gets a great rating by the way, at Amazon.
And so, Pranath turns the page of the book and can then see additional information about the book. We either comments maybe sort of information by his favorite critic, et cetera.
If he turns to a particular page, he finds an annotation by maybe an expert of a friend of ours that gives him a little bit of additional information about whatever is on that particular page.
Reading the newspaper, it never has to be outdated.
You can get video annotations of events that you're reading about.
You can get the latest sports scores, et cetera.
This is a more controversial one.
You interact with someone at a TED, maybe you can see a word cloud of the tags, the words that are associated with a person in their blog and personal web pages.
in this case, the student is interested in cameras, etc.
On your way to the airport, if you pick out your boarding pass, you can tell you that your flight is delayed, that the gate has changed, etc.
So that's where we're at so far in developing this sixth sense that would give us seamless access to all this relevant information about the things that we make come across.
My student Pronap who's really like a set of genius behind this.
and his girlfriend is probably not very happy about him either.
but it's not perfect yet, it's very much a working progress.
and who knows maybe in another 10 years will be here with the ultimate six-cent rain in plants.
Thank you.
I wrote a letter last week talking about the work of the foundations, sharing some of the problems.
and Warren Buffett had recommended I do that. Being honest about what was going well, what wasn't, and making it kind of an annual thing.
A goal I had there was to draw more people in to work on those problems because I think there are some very important problems that don't get worked on naturally.
That is, the market does not drive the scientists, the communicators, the thinkers, the governments to do the right things.
and only by paying attention to these things and having brilliant people who care and draw other people in can we make as much progress as we need to.
So this morning I'm going to share two of these problems and talk about where they stand.
But before I dive into those, I want to admit that I am an optimist.
Any tough problem, I think it can be solved.
And part of the reason I feel that way is looking at the past.
over the last century, average lifespan is more than doubled.
Another statistic, perhaps my favorite is to look at childhood deaths.
As recently as 1960, 110 million children were born and 20 million of those died before the age of five.
Five years ago, 135 million children were born so more and less than 10 million of them died before the age of five.
So that's a factor of two reduction in the child to death rate.
It's a phenomenal thing.
each one of those lives matters a lot.
And the key reason we were able to do it was not only rising in comes, but also a few key breakthroughs, vaccines that were used more widely.
For example, measles was 4 million of the deaths back as recently as 1990 and now is under
So we really can make changes.
The next breakthrough is to cut that 10 million in half again.
And I think that's doable in well under 20 years.
Why?
Well, there's only a few diseases that account for the vast majority of those deaths, diarrhea, pneumonia, and malaria.
So that brings us to the first problem that I'll raise this morning, which is how do we stop a disease, a deadly disease that's spread by mosquitoes?
What's the history of this disease?
It's been a severe disease for thousands of years.
In fact, if we look at the genetic code, it's the only disease we can see that people who lived in Africa actually evolved several things to avoid malaria deaths.
That's actually peaked at a bit over 5 million in the 1930s.
So it was absolutely gigantic.
and the disease was all over the world.
terrible disease.
It was in the United States.
in Europe.
People didn't know what caused it until the early 1900s when a British military man figured out that it was mosquitoes.
So is everywhere.
and two tools helped bring the death breakdown.
One was killing the mosquitoes with DDT.
And the other was treating the patients with quinine or quinine derivatives.
And so that's why the death freak did come down.
Now ironically what happened was it was eliminated from all the temperate zones, which is where all the rich countries are.
So we can see 1900 it's everywhere.
1945, it's still most places.
1990 you've gotten most in northern areas
And then more recently you can see it's just around the equator.
And so this leads to the paradox that because the disease is only in the poor countries, it doesn't get much investment.
For example, there's more money put into baldness drugs than are put into malaria.
Now, ballless, it's terrible thing.
and rich men are afflicted.
And so that's why that priority has been set.
But malaria, even the million deaths a year caused by malaria, greatly understated, is impact.
over 200 million people at any one time or suffering from it.
means that you can't get the economies in these areas going because there's just, it holds things back so much.
Now, Malayers, of course, transmit a bite mosquitoes.
I brought some here so you could experience this.
let those roam around the auditorium a little bit.
There's no reason only poor people should have the experience.
But so he'd come up with a few new things.
We've got bad nets.
and Ben Nets are a great tool.
what it means is the mother and child stand at the bed net at night. And so the mosquitoes that bite lead at night can't get at them.
And when you use indoor spray with DDT and those nuts, you can cut dots by over 50%.
And that's happened now in a number of countries.
It's great to see.
But we have to be careful because malaria, the parasite evolves and the mosquito evolves.
So every tool that we've ever had in the past has eventually become ineffective.
and see you end up with two choices.
If you go into a country with the right tools in the right way and you do it vigorously, you can actually get a local eradication.
And that's where we saw the malaria map shrinking.
or if you go in kind of half-heartedly for a period of time you'll reduce the disease burden, but eventually those tools will become ineffective and the death rate will soar back up again.
And the world has gone through this where it paid attention and then didn't pay attention.
Now we're on the up-squing.
bednut funding is up.
There's no drug discovery going on.
Our foundation is back to vaccine that's going into phase three trial that starts in a couple months.
And that should save over two thirds of lives if it's effective.
and so we're going to have these new tools.
because the roadmap to get rid of this disease involves many things.
that involves communicators to keep the funding hide, keep the visibility hide to tell the success stories.
and involve social scientists so we know how to get not just 70% of people who use the bad nets but 90%.
great creativity.
in time of need. We need great creativity.
discuss.
Great creativity is astonishingly, absurdly, rationally, irrationally powerful.
great creativity can spread tolerance, champion freedom, make education seem like a bright idea.
Gweith ydydd yw'r gwneud yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud, yw'r gwneud
great creativity can make politicians electable or parties unelectable.
It can make war seem like tragedy or fast.
Creativity is the meme maker that puts slogans on our t-shirts and phrases on our lips.
It's the pathfinder that shows us a simple road through an impenetrable moral maze.
Science is clever, but great creativity is something less noble, more magical.
And now we need that magic.
This is a time of need.
A climate is changing quickly, too quickly.
Yn ydym yn ymthio'r gwneud yw'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn y
to tempt us to act differently with delightful creative scraps.
Mae'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
You know rather than drive today. I'm gonna walk.
and so you walk and as he walk he's often.
Strange and wonderful things. You would not otherwise have seen
But dear with the Mitch Gleg.
A flying motor spike.
Father and dog separated from a bicycle by the mysterious wall.
And then he stopped.
Walking in front of him was her.
The woman who has a child that's skit with him through fields and broken his heart.
Sure, she raised a little.
In fact, he did a lot.
But he felt all his old passion for our return.
He calls softly.
That's what they're saying.
Don't say another word, Gusty. She said that was his name.
I know a 10 next door caravan exactly 300 yards from here.
Let's go there. Make love.
in the tent for it on dress.
If you spread one leg and then the other.
And her boldly and made love to her, written it clearly, while she filmed him because she was a keen amateur pornographer.
The Earth moves for closer there.
and they live together happily ever after.
and all because he decided to walk out there.
The moral imperative is on the table.
great creativity is needed to take it all, make it simple and sharp.
to make it connect.
to make it make people want to act.
Ydych yn ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ymthio'n ym
Let's get creative against climate change.
and let's do it soon.
Thank you.
I would think about changing your perspective on the world a bit and showing you some of the designs that we have in nature.
And so I have my first slide to talk about the dawning of the universe and what I call the cosmic scene investigation that is looking at the relics of creation and ensuring what happened at the beginning and then following it up and trying to understand it.
And so one of the questions that I asked you is when you look around, what do you see?
Well, you see this space that's created by designers and by the work of people. But what you actually see is a lot of material that was already here, being reshaped in a certain form.
And so the question is, how do that material get here?
How did it get into the form you had before, got reshaped and so forth?
It's a question of what's the continuity?
So one of the things I look at is how did the universe begin and shape
What was the whole process and the creation and the evolution of the universe to the getting to the point that we have these kind of materials?
So that's sort of part, and let me move on and show you the Hubble Ultra D field.
If you look in this picture, what you will see is a lot of dark with some light objects in it.
and everything but for these led objects or stars and you can see them there little pluses.
This is a star, this is a star, everything else is a galaxy.
So there's a couple of thousand galaxies you can see easily with your eye in here.
And when I look out, it particularly this galaxy which looks a lot like ours, I wonder if there's an art design college conference going on. And it tells me things there are thinking about, you know, what designs I might do. And there might be a few, because I'm all just trying to understand where the universe itself came from. And there might even be some on that galaxy looking at ours trying to figure out what's going on over here.
But there's a lot of other galaxies in summer nearby and they're kind of the color of the sun and summer further away and they're a little blue and so forth.
But one of the questions is, this should be to you, how come there's so many galaxies?
This represents a very clean fraction of the sky.
This is only a thousand galaxies.
We think there's on the order visible to the Hubble Space Telescope if you have the time of the scan and around about a hundred billion galaxies.
Thank you.
Very large number of galaxies.
and that's a breath-ly how many stars there are on our own galaxy.
But when you look at some of these regions like this, you'll see more galaxies and stars, which is kind of a conundrum.
So the question should come to your mind is what kind of design, you know, what kind of creative process and what kind of design produced the world like that.
And then I'm going to tell you it's actually a lot more complicated.
We're going to try and follow it up.
We have a tool that actually helps us out in the study, and that's the fact that the universe is so incredibly big that it's a time machine in a certain sense.
We draw this set of nested spheres cut away.
put the earth at the center of the nested spheres just because that's where we're making observations.
And the moon is only two seconds away, so if you take a picture of the moon using ordinary light, this is the moon two seconds ago and who cares.
two seconds, just like the present.
The sun is eight minutes ago.
That's not such a big deal unless it's all the flares coming you want to go the other way
You'd like to have the advanced morning.
But you get out to Jupiter in its 40 minutes away.
It's a problem.
you're about Mars. It's a problem communicating to Mars because it takes a light long enough to go there.
But if you look out to the nearest set of stars, so the nearest 40 or 50 stars, it's about 10 years.
to pick and take a picture of what's going on, it's 10 years ago.
But you go and look to the center of the galaxy at thousands of years ago.
We look at Endromeda, which is the nearest big galaxy, and it's 2 million years ago.
If you took a picture of the Earth 2 million years ago, there'd be no evidence of humans at all, because we don't think there were humans yet.
I mean, it's just gives you the scale.
with Hubble Space Telescope, we're looking at hundreds of millions of years, billion years.
But if we were capable to come up with an idea how to look even further to send things even further, and that was what I did a lot of my work was to develop the techniques. We could look out back to even earlier episodes before there were stars and before there were galaxies back to when the universe was hot and dense and very different.
And so that's the sequence. And so I have a more artistic impression of this.
There's the galaxy in the middle, which is the Milky Way, and around it are the Hubble nearby galaxies. And there's a sphere that marks the different times.
and behind that are some more modern galaxies.
You see the whole big picture?
the beginning of time is funny it's on the outside. Right.
And then there's a part of the universe we can't see because it's so dense and so hot like can't escape.
It's like you can't see the center of the sun. You have to use other techniques to know what's going on inside the sun.
But you can see the edge of the sun and the universe gets that way. We can see that.
And then you see this sort of model area around the outside. And that is the radiation coming from the Big Bang, which is actually incredibly uniform.
The universe is almost a perfect sphere, but there are these very tiny variations which we show here in great exaggeration.
And from them in the time sequence, we're going to have to go from these tiny variations to these irregular galaxies in first stars to these more advanced galaxies and eventually this solar system, since so forth.
So it's a big design job, but we'll see about how things are going on.
So the way this measurements were done is been a set of satellites and this is where you get to see
So there was the Kobe satellite, which was launched in 1989, and we discovered these variations.
And then in 2000 the map satellite was launched the W map and it made somewhat better pictures.
And later this year, this is the cool stealth version, the one that actually has some beautiful design features to it. And it says below the planks highlight will be launched and it will make very high resolution maps.
and that will be the sequence of understanding the very beginning of the universe.
And what we saw was we sound these variations and then they told us the secrets both about the structure of space time and about the contents of the universe and about how the universe started in its original emotions.
So we have this picture which is quite a spectacular picture and I'll come back to it at the beginning where we're going to have some mysterious process that kicks the universe off at the beginning.
and we go through a period of accelerating expansion and the universe expands and cools and it gets to the point where it becomes transparent. Then the dark edges and then the first stars turn on and they evolve into galaxies and later they get to the more expansive galaxies.
And somewhere around this period is when our solar system started forming.
and it's maturing up to the present time.
And there's some spectacular things.
And this waste basket part, that's to represent what the structure of space time itself is doing during this period.
And so this is a pretty weird model, right?
What kind of evidence do we have for that?
So let me show you some of nature's patterns that are results of this.
I always think of space time as being the real substance of space and the galaxies and the stars, just like the foam on the ocean.
It's a marker of where the interesting waves are and whatever one on.
So here is the Sloan Digital Sky Survey showing the location of a million galaxies.
You'll dot on here for every galaxy.
They go out and when it tells us to go up with the sky, take a picture, identify what are stars and throw them away. Look at the galaxies, estimate how far away they are and plot them up.
and just put readyly they're going out that way.
And you see these structures this thing we call the Great Wall. And what there's voids and those kind of stuff. And they kind of fade out because the telescope isn't sensitive enough to do it.
I'm going to show you this in 3D.
What happens is you take pictures as the earth rotates you get a tann across the sky.
There's some places you can't look because of our own galaxy or because there are no telescopes available to do it.
So the next picture shows you the three dimensional version of this rotating around.
And you see the fan like scans made across the sky.
Remember, every spot on here is a galaxy. And you see the galaxies, you know, sort of in our neighborhood. And you sort of see the structure.
And you see this thing we call the great wall, and you see the complicated structure. And you see these boys.
There are places where there are no galaxies and there are places where there are thousands of galaxies clumped together.
So there's an interesting pattern, but we don't have enough data here to actually see the pattern.
We only have a million galaxies, right?
So keeping like a million balls in the air, but you know what's going on.
There's another survey which is very similar to this called the TD, the two degree field of view, Galaxy Redshift survey.
Now we're going to fly through it at Warp a million.
And every time there's a galaxy, it is location, there's a galaxy, and we know if we know anything about the galaxy, which you do, because there's a red shift measurement, everything. You put in the type of galaxy in the color. So this is the river representation.
And when you're in the middle of the galaxy, it's hard to see the pattern. It's like being in the middle of life.
It's hard to see the better. The audience is hard to see the better.
So we're going to go out and swing around and look back at this.
And you will see the first structure of the survey, and then you'll start seeing the structure of the galaxies that we see out there.
So again, you can see the extension of this great wall of galaxies showing up here.
But you can see the void, you can see the complicated structure, and you say, well, how did this happen?
Suppose you're the Cosmic Designer.
How are you going to put galaxies out there in a pattern like that?
It's not just throwing them out at random.
There's a more complicated process going on here.
How are you going to end up doing that?
And so now we're in for some serious play.
But as we have to seriously play God, not just change people's lives, but make the universe, right?
So if that's your responsibility, how are you going to do that?
What's the kind of technique?
What's the kind of thing you're gonna do?
So I'm going to show you the results of a very large scale simulation of what we think the universe might be like using essentially some of the play principles and some of the design principles that humans have labored so hard to pick up, but apparently nature knew how to do it at the beginning.
And that is, you start out with very simple ingredients and some simple rules. And what you have to have enough ingredients to make it complicated.
And then you put in some randomness, some fluctuations, some randomness, and realize a whole bunch of different representations.
So what I'm going to do is show you the distribution of matter as a function of scales.
We're going to zoom in, but this is a platter.
And we had to add one more thing to make the universe come out, right?
Thorough Matter.
that doesn't interact with light, the typical way that ordinary matter does, the way the light shining on me or on the stage.
It's transparent to light, but in order for you to see it, we're gonna make it white.
OK.
So the stuff that's in this picture that's white, that is the dark matter.
It should be called invisible matter, the dark matter may visible.
And then the stuff that is in the yellow color, that is the ordinary kind of matter, is turned into stars and galaxies.
So I'll show you the next movie.
So this we're gonna zoom in.
notice this pattern and pay attention to this pattern.
We're gonna zoom in and zoom in.
And you'll see there are all these filament instructors and voids.
And when a number of filaments come together and do not, that makes a super cluster of galaxies.
This one we're zooming in on is somewhere between 100,000 and a million galaxies in a small region.
So we live in the Bony.
We don't live in the center of the solar system. We don't live in the center of the galaxy and our galaxy is not in the center of a big cluster.
So we're zooming in.
This is a region which probably has more than a hundred thousand on the order of a million galaxies in that region.
We're gonna keep zooming in.
OK.
And so I forgot to tell you the scale.
A parsec is three, 26 light years.
So gigapar sex is 3 billion light years. That's disgusting.
So it takes light 3 billion years to travel over that distance.
Now we're enter this instance, so the between here and here.
this between us and in drama.
These little specs that you're seeing in your their galaxies.
Now we're going to zoom back out. And you can see this structure that we want to get very far out looks very regular. But it's made up of a lot of irregular variations.
So there's simple building blocks.
There's a very simple fluid that began with.
dark matter, Scott Ordinary Matter, Scott Sotans, and it's got neutrinos which don't play much role in the later part of the universe.
And it's just a simple fluid and it, it, it, it over time develops into this complicated structure.
And so, you know, now, I mean, when you first saw this picture, didn't mean quite so much to you.
here you're looking across 1% of the volume of the visible universe and you're seeing billions of galaxies and nodes but you realize they're not even the main structure of
There's a framework which is the dark matter, the invisible matter, the South there that's actually holding it all together.
So let's slide through it and you can see how much harder it is when you're in the middle of something to figure this out.
So here's that same end result.
You see a filament, you see the white is the invisible matter and the yellow is the star is the galaxies showing up.
and we're going to fly around and we'll fly around and you'll see some occasionally a couple of settlements intersect and you get a large cluster of galaxies.
And then we'll fly in, the very large cluster is, and you can see what it looks like.
And so from inside it doesn't look very complicated, right?
It's only when you look at it on a really large scale and explore it and stuff where you realize this is a very intricate, complicated kind of a design.
and it's growing up in some kind of way.
So the question is, how hard would it be to assemble this, right?
how many of our contractors team would you need to put this university together?
That's the issue, right?
And so here we are.
You see how several elements are coming together and therefore making this super cluster of galaxies.
And you have to understand this is not how it actually look if you were, first you can't travel this fast, but everything would be distorted, but this is using simple rendering. Graphic art is kind of stuff.
This is how if you took billions of years to go around it might look to you.
if you can see in this little matter too.
And so the idea is, you know, how would you put together the inverse in a very simple way?
We're going to start and realize that the entire visible universe, everything we can see in every direction with the Hubble Space Telescope plus our other instruments was one center region that was smaller than an atom.
It started with tiny quantum mechanics fluctuations, but expanding and it tremendous rate.
And those fluctuations were stretched to astronomical sizes. And those fluctuations eventually are the things we see in the causing microwave background.
And then we need some way to turn those fluctuations in the galaxies and clusters of galaxies and to make these kind of structures go on.
So I'm going to show you a smaller simulation.
This simulation was run on a thousand processors for a month in order to make just a simple visual.
So I'm going to show you one that can be run on a desktop in two days in the next picture.
So you start out with teeny fluctuations when the nearest was at this point now four times smaller and so forth.
and you start seeing these networks, this Catholic web of structure forming.
And this is a simple one because it doesn't have the ordinary matter, and it just has the dark matter in it.
and you see how the dark matter lumps up and the ordinary matter just trails along behind.
So there it is.
at the beginning of the very uniform.
the fluctuations are a part of the
a few peaks that are apart in 10,000 and then over billions of years gravity just pulls
This is slight over density. Pulls the material around in.
that pulls in more material and pulls in more material.
But the distance is on the universe as so large and the timescales are so large that it takes a long time for this to form.
And it keeps forming until the universe is roughly about half the size it is now and in terms of a expansion.
At that point, the universe mysteriously starts accelerating its expansion and cuts off the formation of larger scale structure.
So we're just seeing as large as scale structure as we can see. And then the only things that are started forming already are going to form then from then on. It's going to go on.
So we're able to do this simulation, but this is two days on a desktop.
We need 30 days on a thousand processors to do the kind of simulation that I showed you before.
So we have an idea of how to play seriously creating the universe by starting with essentially less than an eyedrope full of material. And we create everything we can see in any direction. From almost nothing that is something extremely tiny, extremely small. And it's almost perfect. Except it has these tiny fluctuations at a partner with the other thousand-level, which turn out to produce the interesting patterns and design we see that is galaxies and stars and so forth.
So we have a model and we can calculate it and we can use it to make designs of what we think the universe really looks like.
And that design is sort of way beyond what our original imagination of her was.
So this is what we started with 15 years ago with the Cosmic Background Explorer. Made the map and the upper right, which basically showed us that there were large scale fluctuations and actually fluctuations on several scales.
You can kind of see that.
Since then, we've had WMAP, which just gives us high-ranking resolution.
We see the same large scale structure, but we see additional small scale structure.
And on the bottom right is, if the satellite had flipped upside down and mapped the Earth, what kind of a map we've gotten the Earth.
You could see, well, you can kind of pick out old major continents, but that's about it.
But what we're hoping when we get the plank will have resolution about equivalent to the resolution you see of the earth there where you can really see the complicated pattern that exists on the earth.
and you can also tell because of the sharp edges and the way things fit together. There's some non-linear processes.
geology has these effects in which is moving the plates around until we're
You can see that just from the map alone.
We want to get to the point in our maps of the early universe. We can see whether they're really nonlinear effects that are starting to move to modify and it gives a hint about how space time itself was actually created at the beginning moment.
So that's where we are today and that's what I wanted to give you a flavor of.
give you a different view about what the design and whatever everything else looks like.
Thank you.
Speaking about compassion from an Islamic point of view and perhaps my faith is not very well thought of as being one that is grounded in compassion.
The truth of the matter is otherwise.
Our holy book, the Quran, consists of 114 chapters. And each chapter begins with what we call the best smeller, the saying in the name of God, the all compassionate, the all merciful. Or as serrated burden, not the Richard burden was made to Elizabeth Taylor, but the serrated burden who lived a century before that and who was a worldwide traveler and translator of many works of literature translate sit.
in the name of God, the compassionating the compassionate. And in the saying of the Quran, which for the Muslims is God speaking to humanity, God says to his prophet Muhammad, whom we believe to be the last of our series of prophets beginning with Adam, including Noah, including Moses, including Abraham, including Jesus Christ, and ending with Muhammad. said that we have not sent you or Muhammad except as a Rahma except as a source of compassion to humanity. And for us human beings and certainly for us as Muslims, whose mission and whose purpose in following the path of the Prophet is to make ourselves as much like the Prophet.
and the prophet in one of his saying said, Adorn yourselves with the attributes of God. And because God himself said that the primary attribute of his is compassion, in fact, the Quran says that God decreed upon himself compassion, or reigned himself in by compassion. Therefore our objective and our mission must be to be sources of compassion, activators of compassion, actors of compassion, and speakers of compassion, and doers of compassion.
Itu yang baik. Tapi why? Why? Do we go wrong? And what is the source of the lack of compassion in the world?
For the answer to this, we turn to our spiritual path.
in every religious tradition that is what you call the outer path and the inner path or the exoteric path and the exoteric path.
The esoteric path of Islam is more popular in known as Sufism, or the Sa'awwaf in Arabic.
And these doctors, or these masters, these spiritual masters of the Soviet tradition, refer to teachings and examples of our prophet that teach us where the source of our problems lie.
In one of the battles that the prophet waged, he told his followers, we are returning from the lesser war to the greater war, to the greater battle. And he said, messenger of God, we are battle weary.
Hakumi go to a greater battle. Does that is the battle of the Self, the battle of the ego? The sources of human problems have to do with egoism. I, the famous Sufi Master Rumi, who is very well known to most of you, has a story in which he talks of a man who goes to the house of a friend and knocks on the door and a voice answers, who's there? It's me or more grammatically correctly, it is I as we might say in English.
The voice says, go away after many years of training, of disciplining, of search and struggle, he comes back.
And with much greater humility, he knocks again on the door.
The voice asks, who is there? It is you, oh heartbreaker. The door swings open and the voice says, come in. For there is no room in this house for two eyes, two capital eyes, not these eyes, the for two egos. And room in stories are metaphors for the spiritual path.
In the presence of God, there is no room for more than one eye. And that is the eye of divinity.
in a teaching, or called a Hadith Qutzi in our tradition, God says, that my servant or my creature, my human creature, does not approach me by anything that is dearer to me than what I have asked him to do. And those of you who are employers know exactly what I mean.
You want your employees to do what you ask them to do. And if they've done that, then they can do extra.
but don't ignore what you've asked them to do.
And God says, my servant continues to get nearer to me by doing more of what I've asked him to do, extra credit with my quality. Until I love him or love her.
And when I love my servant, God says, I become the eyes by which He or she sees. The ears by which He or she listens. The hand by which He or she grasps and the foot by which He or she walks and the heart by which He or she understands. It is this merging of our self with divinity, that is the lesson and purpose of our spiritual path and all of our faith traditions.
Muslims regard Jesus as the master of Sufism. The greatest prophet in Messenger who came to emphasize this spiritual path.
When he says, I am the Spirit and I am the Way. When the Prophet Muhammad said, whoever has seen me has seen God, it is because they became so much an instrument of God. They became part of God's team so that God's will was manifested through them and not acting from their own self, from their own ego.
Compassion on earth is given. It is in us.
All we have to do is to get out egos out of the way. Get out egotism out of the way.
I'm sure, probably all of you here of certainly the very vast majority of you, have had what you might call a spiritual experience. A moment in your lives, when for a few seconds, a minute perhaps, the boundaries of your ego dissolved.
And at that minute, you felt at one with the universe. One with that jug of water, one with every human being, one with the creator, and you felt in the presence of power, of all, of the deepest love, the deepest sense of compassionate mercy that you have ever experienced in your lives.
That is a moment which is a gift of God to us. A gift when for a moment he lifts that boundary which makes us insist on I, I, I, me, me. And instead, like the person in the room is story, we say, oh, this is all you
This is all you.
and this is all us.
and us and I and us all part of you.
all creator.
Oh, you're objective.
the source of our being and the end of our journey. You are also the breaker of our hearts.
You are the one whom we should all be towards. For who's purpose we live, and for whose purpose we shall die, and for whose purpose we shall be resurrected again, to account to God, to what extent we have been compassionate beings. Our message today, and our purpose today, and those of us of you who are here today, and the purpose of this chart of compassion is to remind.
for the Quran always urges us to remember, to remind each other because the knowledge of truth is within every human being.
We know it all.
We have access to it all.
One may have called it the subconscious through our subconscious, in your dreams which we call the core uncold state of sleep, the lesser death, the temporary death. In our state of sleep, we have dreams, we have visions, we travel even outside of our bodies for many of us and we see wonderful things.
We travel beyond the limitations of spaces we know it and beyond the limitations of time as we know it.
But all this is for us to glorify the name of the Creator, whose primary name is the compassionating, the compassionate.
God, Bach, whatever name you want to call him with, Allah, Ram, Om, whatever the name might be through which you name or access, the presence of divinity is the locus of absolute being, absolute love and mercy and compassion and absolute knowledge and wisdom. But Hindus call sat-chitanaanda, The language differs, but the objective is the same.
Roomi has another story about three a Turk and Arab and I forget the third person but for my sake it could be a Malay.
One is asking for anger, one is saying Englishman, one is asking for anger, one is asking for grapes.
and they go have a fight in an argument because I want grapes, I want to end up
I want Angkor not knowing that the word that they're using refers to the same reality in different languages.
There's only one absolute reality by definition. One absolute being by definition. Because absolute is by definition single and absolute and singular.
There is this absolute concentration of being, the absolute concentration of consciousness, awareness, and absolute locus of compassion and love that defines the primary attributes of divinity.
and that should also be the primary attributes of what it means to be human.
for what defines humanity, perhaps biologically, is our physiology. But God defines humanity by our spirituality, by our nature.
In the poor answers, he speaks to the angel and says, when I have finished the formation of Adam from clay and breathed into him of my spirit, then fall in frustration to him. The angels prostrate not before the human body, but before the human soul.
Why?
because the soul, the human soul, embodies a piece of the divine breath, a piece of the divine soul.
This is also expressed in biblical vocabulary when we are taught that we were created in the divine image.
What is the imagery of God?
The imagery of God is absolute being, absolute awareness and knowledge and wisdom, and absolute compassion and love.
and therefore for us to be human. In the greatest sense of what it means to be human, in the most joyful sense of what it means to be human, means that we too have to be proper stewards of the breath of divinity within us. And to seek to perfect within ourselves, the attribute of being, of being alive, of beingness, the attribute of wisdom, of consciousness, of awareness, and the attribute of being compassionate and loving beings.
This is what I understand from my faith tradition. And this is what I understand from my studies of other faith traditions. And this is the common platform on which we must all stand. And when we stand on this platform as such, I am convinced that we can make a wonderful world.
and I believe personally that we are on the verge and that with the presence and help of people like you here, we can bring about the prophecy of Isaiah.
where he fought hold of a period when people shall transform their swords into plushes and will not learn war and make war anymore.
We have reached a stage in human history that we have no option. We must. We must. Lower our egos. Control our egos, whether it is individual ego, personal ego, family ego, national ego. and let all be for the glorification of the one.
Thank you and God bless you.
a human child is born and for quite a long time, it is a consume.
It cannot be consciously a contribute.
It is helpless.
It doesn't know you and how to survive. Even though it is in doubt with an instinct to survive.
It needs the help of mother or a foster mother to survive.
It can't afford to doubt the person who tends to child.
It has to totally surrender as one surrenders to an anesthesiologist.
It has to totally surrender.
That implies a lot of trust.
that implies the trusted person won't violate the trust.
As the child grows, it begins to discover that the person trusted is violating the trust.
It doesn't know even the word violation. Therefore, it has to blame itself. A wordless blame, which is more, more difficult to really resolve, a wordless self-blame.
as the child grows to become an adult. So far it has been a consumer, but the growth of a human being lies in his or her capacity to contribute, to be a contribute.
One cannot contribute unless one feels secure. One feels big. One feels I am, I have enough.
To be compassionate is not a joke.
is not that simple.
Won't have to discover a certain bigness in oneself.
that business should be centered on oneself, not in terms of money, not in terms of power you wield, not in terms of any status that you can command in the society. But it should be centered on oneself.
you are
itself it should be centered a bigness, a holdness.
Otherwise compassion is just a word and a dream.
You can be compassionate, occasionally. More moved by empathy than by compassion.
Thank God we are empathetic.
When somebody is in pain, we pick up the pain.
in a Wimbledon, match, final match. These two guys fight it out.
Each one has got two games.
It can be anybody's game.
what they have swatted so far as no meaning.
1%
The tennis certificate is both the players have to come to the net and shake hands.
The winner boxes the air and kisses the ground, throws his shirt as though somebody is waiting for him.
And this guy has to come to the net.
When he comes to the net, you see his whole failed space changes.
It looks as though he's wishing that he didn't win.
Why?
Thank you.
That's human heart.
ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک ایک
No religion can demolish that by doctrine.
no culture, no nation and nationalism, nothing can touch it because it is empathy.
and that capacity to empathize is the window through which you reach out to people. You do something that makes the difference in somebody's life, even words, even time
Compression is not defined in one form.
There is no Indian compassion.
There's no American compassion.
It transcends nation, gender, age,
What
because it is there in everybody.
It's experienced by people, a question
Then this occasional compassion, we are not talking about. It will ever remain a occasional
By mandate you cannot make a person from person.
You can't say, please, love me. Love is something you'll discover.
It's not an action, but an English language, it is also an action.
I will come to it later.
So one has got to discover a setting, wholeness.
I am going to cite the possibility of being whole, which is within our experience, everybody's experience.
In spite of a very tragic life, one is happy in moments which are very few and far between.
and the one who is happy, even for a slapstick joke, accept himself and also the scheme of things in which one finds oneself.
That means the whole universe, known things and unknown things.
all of them are totally accepted because you discover your wholeness in yourself.
The subject me and the object, the scheme of things, fuse into one's experience, nobody can say, I am denied of. An experience common to all and
that experience confirms that in spite of all your limitations, all your wants, desires and fulfil the credit cards and layoffs and finally, baldness, you can be happy
The extension of the logic is that you don't need to fulfill a desire to be happy.
You are the very happiness, the wholeness that you want to be.
there is no chai-sins, that only confirms the reality, that the wholeness cannot be different from you, cannot be minus you
It has got to be you.
You cannot be a part of wholeness and still be wholeness.
your moment of happiness reveals that reality, that realization, that recognition. Maybe I am the whole.
مہتی ہے جوانی ہے جوانی ہے
你也會在你身上,你會在你身上,你會在你身上。
then everything becomes meaningful.
I have no more reason to blame myself.
If one has to blame himself, one has got million reasons plus many.
But if I say in spite of my body being limited, if it is black, it is not white. If it is white, it is not black. Body is limited in a which way you look at it.
Limited.
Your knowledge is limited, health is limited and powers therefore limited and the cheerfulness is going to be limited.
Compassion is going to be limited.
Everything is going to be limitless.
You cannot command compassion unless you become limitless and nobody can become limitless, either you are or you are not.
Пириэн.
and there is no way of your being not limitless too.
Your own experience reveals, in spite of all limitations you are the whole.
and the coldness is the reality of view. When you relate to the world,
It is low first.
When you relate to the world, the dynamic manifestation of the wholeness is what we say, love.
And itself becomes compassion. If the object that you relate to, you've worked that emotion,
then that again transforms into giving, into sharing,
you express yourself because you have compassion.
to discover compassion you need to be compassionate.
to discover the capacity to give and share, you need to be giving and sharing.
There is no shortcut, it is like swimming by swimming.
You learn swimming by swimming.
You cannot learn swimming in a foam mattress and enter into water.
you learn swimming by swimming.
you load cycling by cycling.
You learn cooking by cooking, having some sympathetic people around you. To eat what do you cook?
And therefore, what I say, you have to fake it and make it.
You need to.
My predecessor meant that.
You have to act, you don't.
You have to act. Come
there is no verb for compassion. But you have an adverb for compassion.
That's interesting to me.
You act compassionately.
But then how do I confessionately if I don't have compassion?
That is very effective.
You fake it and make it.
This is the mantra of United States of America.
You FAKE IT AND MAKE IT!
You act compassionately, as though you have compassion, grind your teeth, take all the support system.
If we know how to pray, pray.
Ask for Compass.
Let me act compassionate.
Дуй!
You will discover compassion and also slowly a relative compassion and slowly perhaps if you get the right teaching, you will discover compassion is a dynamic manifestation of the reality of yourself which is oneness, wholeness and that's what you are
This was, thank you very much.
This means I'm smiling. So does that.
This means a mouse cat. Here we have a story.
The start of the story where this means guy and that is a ponytail on a passerby.
Here's where it happens.
These are when.
This is a cassette tape. The girl puts into her cassette tape player.
She wears it every day.
It's not considered vintage. She just likes certain music to sound a certain way.
Look at her posture. It's remarkable.
that's because she dances.
Now he, the guy takes all of this in figuring honestly, geez, what are my chances? And he could say, oh my God, or I hurt you, I'm laughing out loud, I want to give you a hug, but he comes up with that, you know?
He tells her, I'd like to hand paint your portrait on a coffee mug. Put a crab inside it.
Add some water.
seven different salts.
He means he's got this sudden notion to stand on dry land but just panhandle at the ocean.
He says you look like a mermaid, but you walk like a waltz and the girl goes, well, so the guy replies, yeah, I know I know.
I think my heartbeat might be the Morris Code for inappropriate.
at least that's how it seems.
I'm like a junior varsity cheerleader sometimes for swearing awkward silences and very simple rhyme schemes.
Right now, talking to you, I'm not even really a guy.
I'm a monkey. Loan kisses at a butterfly.
But I'm still suggesting you and I should mean.
first soon and then a lot.
I'm thinking the South was corner of 52nd at noon tomorrow, but I'll stay until you show up. Ponytail or not.
Hell, ponytail alone.
I don't know what else to tell you.
I got a pencil you can borrow.
You can put it in your phone, but the girl does not bunch. Does not smile. Does not frown.
She just says, no, thank you.
Hi, I'm here to talk to you about the importance of praise, admiration, and thank you, and having a be specific in genuine.
And the way I got interested in this was I noticed in myself when I was growing up and until about a few years ago that I would want to say thank you to someone I would want to praise and I'd want to take in their praise of me and I'd just stop it.
And I asked myself why.
I felt shy, felt embarrassed.
And then my question became am I the only one who does this
side to side to investigate.
I'm fortunate enough to work in the rehab facility so I get to see people who are facing life and death with addiction.
And sometimes it comes down to something as simple as their core wound is their father died without ever saying he's proud of them.
But then they hear from all the family and friends that the father told everybody else that he was proud of him, but he never told the son.
because he didn't know that his son needed to hear it.
So my question is, why don't we ask for the things that we need?
I know, I'm in married for 25 years, who's longing to hear his wife say thank you for being the breadwinners so I could stay home with the kids, but won't ask.
I know woman is good at this.
She wants a week meter that her husband says, I really like you to thank me for all these things I did in the house and with the kids and he goes and he goes, oh, this is great. This is great and praise really does have to be genuine, but she takes responsibility for that.
and a friend of mine April who I've had since kindergarten. She thanks for children for doing their chores.
And she said, why wouldn't I think it even though they're supposed to do it? So the question is why was I blocking it?
why are there people blocking it?
Why can I say I'll take my stoch medium rare I need size 6 shoes? But I won't say, would you praise me this way? And it's because I'm giving you critical data about me.
I'm telling you where I'm insecure.
I'm telling you where I need your help.
And I'm treating you my inner circle like you're the enemy.
because what can you do with that data?
You couldn't neglect me.
You could have used it.
or you can actually meet my need.
And I took my bike into the bike store. I love this same bike and they do something called trueing the wheels.
the guy said, you know, when you chew the wheels it's going to make the bike so much better. I get the same bike back and they've taken all the little warps out of those same wheels I've had for two and a half years and my bike is like new.
So I'm gonna challenge all of you.
I want you to true your wheels be honest about the praise that you need to hear.
What do you need to hear?
go home to your wife. Go ask her what does she need
home if your husband what does he need.
Go home and ask those questions and then help the people around you.
and it's simple.
And why should we care about this?
We talk about world peace.
How can we have world peace with different cultures, different languages?
I think it starts household by household under the same roof.
So let's make it right in our own backyard.
And I want to thank all of you in the audience.
And maybe somebody's never said that to you, but you've done a really, really good job.
Thank you for being here and just showing up and changing the world with your ideas.
Thank you.
The decorative use of why I'm Southern Africa dates back hundreds of years.
modernization, actually board communication and a whole new material in the form of telephone wire.
Rural to open migration meant that newfound industrial materials started to replace hard to come by natural grasses.
So here you can see the change from use starting to use content pin materials.
These pieces stayed back from the forties to the late 50s.
In the 90s, my interest in passion for transitional art forms led me to a new form, which came from a sport camp outside Derben.
And I got the opportunity to start working with this community at that point. I'm started developing really and mentoring them in terms of scale, in terms of the design.
yn y cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cyfysdio'r cy
We soon had of grown the scrapyards what they could provide. So we could hear why I'm in a facture to help us and we're not only to supply the materials and on Bobbin's, but to produce our callous specification.
Mae'n yw'n gwneud yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw
Duskig is er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er omhoogdeen er om
We started experimenting as you can see in terms of shapes, forms.
The scale will become very important and it's become our pit project.
So, it's been raining for 12 years.
And we supply the corn ranchap and donna care in. So it's kind of great.
This is our group, our main group of weavers.
Mae'n y wwydw i'n bwythu'n dweith.
they will have bank accounts.
they've all moved back to the rural area where they came from.
It's a weekly turnaround of production.
This is the community that originally showed you the slide of
And that's also modernized today. And it's supporting work for 300 weevers.
yn y bysfysd, yn y rwy'n
Thank you very much.
I had a fire nine days ago.
My archive is 175 films, my 16 millimeter negative, all my books, all my dad's books, my photographs.
I had collected, I was a collector major big time.
It's gone.
I just looked at it and I didn't know what to do.
I mean, this was, was I my things?
I always live in the present. I love the present.
I cherished a future.
And I was taught some strange things that cared, like, you gotta make something good, I had something bad.
You gotta make something good out of something bad.
This was bad.
Man, I was...
I cough. I was sick.
That's my camera lens.
the first one the one I shot my Bob Dylan film with 35 years ago
That's my feature film.
King Murray won console festival in 1970. They only print I had.
That's my papers.
That was in minutes, it's 20 minutes.
Stephanie, have me.
something hit me.
You got to make something good at it. Something bad. I started to say to my friends, neighbors, my sister.
by the way, that's Spartanica, I ran it last year.
Sputnik was downtown the negative
it wasn't touched.
These are some pieces of things I used in my Sputnik feature film which opens in New York in two weeks at downtown.
I call my sister
call my neighbors
said, come dig, that's me at my desk.
I was a desk took 40 yumms to use the build.
you know all the stuff.
That's my daughter, Jean.
She came.
She's a nurse in San Francisco.
Dig it up, I said.
pieces.
I want pieces.
bits and pieces. I came up with this idea, a life of bits and pieces which I'm just starting to work on. My next project
That's my sister.
She took care of pictures because I was a big collector of just snapshot photography that I believed said a lot.
And there was some of the pictures that something was good about the burned pictures
I didn't know.
I looked at it and said, wow, is that better than you? That's my proposal on Jimmy Doodle.
I made that movie for television.
that's only copy I had.
peace of it.
idea about women.
So I started to say, hey man, you are too much.
If you could cry about this, I really didn't.
I instead said I'm gonna make something out of it and maybe next year.
And I appreciate this moment to come up on this stage with so many people who have already given me so much solace and just say to Ted Stards, I'm proud of me.
that I take something bad, I turn it and I'm going to make something good out of this. All these pieces
That's awful life's exaggeration, I'll photograph, I loved.
I was a big record collector. The record didn't make it.
I'll tell you, film burns.
Film burnt.
I mean, this was 16mm safety film.
the negative
I was like, well, that's my father's letter to me. Tell him he's married the woman I first married when I was 20.
My daughter and me.
she still there.
She said this morning actually.
That's my house.
My family is living in the Hilton Hotel in Scott's Valley.
That's my wife Heidi, who didn't take it as well as I did.
My children, Davey and Henry.
My son, David, and the hotel two nights ago.
So my message to you folks for my three minutes is that I appreciate the chance to share this with you.
I will be back.
I love being a Ted.
I came to live it and I am living it.
That's my view from my window outside of Santa Cruz in body doing just 35 miles from here.
Thank you everybody.
This is a work in process based on some comments that were made at Ted two years ago about the need for the storage.
So 29 years ago, I had this thermo teacher who talked about absorption refrigeration. It was one of those things that stuck in my head. It was a lot like the Sterling Engine. It was cool, but you didn't know what to do with it.
It was invented in 1858 by this guy, Ferdinand Carrey, but he couldn't actually build anything with it because of the tools of the time.
as crazy Canadian and power crawls the thing called the icy ball in
It was a really neat idea and I'll get to why I didn't work, but here's how it works.
There's two spheres and they're separated in distance.
One has a working fluid water and ammonia. The other is a is a condenser.
you heat up one side, the hot side.
the ammonia evaporates and it recondences in the other side.
You let it cool the room temperature. And then as the ammonia re evaporates and combines with the water back on the earth's twilight hot side, it creates a powerful cooling effect.
So it was a great idea. Didn't work at all.
de blua.
because they're using ammonia, you get hugely high pressures if you did it, if you heated them wrong, you get a topped 400 PSI.
The ammonia was toxic, it's afraid everywhere.
But it's kind of an interesting fight.
So, it's a great thing about 2006. There's a lot of really great computational work you can do.
So we got the whole thermodynamics department that Stanford involved. A lot of computational fluid dynamics.
we've proved, and most of the ammonia refrigeration tables are wrong.
We found some non-toxic refrigerants that worked at very low vapor pressures.
brought in a team from the UK. There's a lot of great refrigeration people turned down in the UK. And built a test rig and proved that in fact we could make a low pressure non-toxic refrigerator.
This is the way it works.
you put it on a cooking fire.
Most people have cooking fires in the world, whether it's Cameldung or Wood.
He eats up for about 30 minutes. Cools for an hour.
Put it into a container and it will refrigerate for 24 hours.
It looks like this.
This is the fifth prototype. It's not quite done.
ways about eight pounds and this is the way it works.
You put it into a 15-liter vessel about three gallons and it'll cool it down to just above freezing. Three degrees above freezing for 24 hours and a 30-degree C environment.
It's really cheap.
We think we can build these in high volumes for about $25 in low volumes for about $40.
And we think we can make a refrigeration something that everybody can have.
Thank you.
One way to change our genes is to make new ones has Craig Ventor has so elegantly shown.
Another is to change our lifestyles.
And what we're learning is how powerful and dynamic these changes can be that you don't have to wait very long to see the benefits.
When you eat healthier, managed, stress, exercise, and love more, your brain actually gets more blood flow and more oxygen.
But more than that, your brain gets measurably bigger.
things that were thought impossible just a few years ago can actually be measured now.
This was a figured out by Robin Williams a few years before the rest of us.
Now there's some things that you can do to make your brain grow into brain cells.
some of my favorite things like chocolate and tea, blueberries, alcohol and moderation, stress management, and cannabinoids found in marijuana.
Kind of just a messenger.
What were we just talking about?
And other things that can make it worse, it can cause you to lose brain cells.
the usual suspects like saturated fat and sugar, nicotine, opiates, cocaine, too much alcohol and chronic stress.
Your skin gets more blood flow when you change your lifestyle. So you age less quickly.
your skin doesn't wrinkle as much.
your heart gets more blood flow.
we've shown that chicken actually reverse heart disease.
that these clogged arteries that you see in the upper left after only a year become measurably less clogged.
and the cardiac pet scan shown in the lower left, the blue means no blood flow.
your later orange and white is maximum of blood flow.
We've shown you may be able to stop a reverse progression of early prostate cancer by extension. Breast cancer simply might make these changes.
We found that tumor growth in vitro was inhibited 70% in the group that made these changes, whereas only 9% in the comparison group.
whose differences were highly significant.
Even your sexual organs get more blood flow so you increase sexual potency.
I want to know most effective anti-smoking ads was done by the Department of Health Services showing that nicotine which constricts your arteries can cause a heart attack or a stroke but it also causes impotence.
half of guys who smoke or amputant.
How sexy is that?
And we're also about to publish a study the first study showing you can change gene expression and then with prostate cancer.
This is what's called a heat map and the different colors and along the side on the right are different genes.
And we found that over 500 genes were favorably changed. And in fact, turning on the good genes that disease preventing genes, turning off the disease promoting genes.
And so these things findings, I think are really very powerful, they're giving many people new hope and new choices.
and companies like Navigenex and DNA Direct and 23 in me that are giving your genetic profiles are getting some people a sense of gosh, well what can I do about it? Well, our genes are not our fate and if we make these changes, they're a predisposition, but if we make bigger changes than we might have made otherwise, we can actually change how our genes are expressed.
Thank you.
Well, I'm involved in other things besides physics.
In fact, mostly now and other things.
One thing is distant relationships among human languages.
and the professional historical linguists in the US and in Western Europe, mostly try to stay away from any long-distance relationships. Big groupings that go back a long time longer than the familiar families.
They don't like that.
if it gets cranked.
I don't think it's Craig.
and there's some brilliant linguists, mostly Russians who are working on that at Santa Fe Institute and in Moscow. And I would love to see where that leads.
This is really lead to a single ancestor, some 20, 25,000 years ago.
And what if we go back beyond that single ancestor when there was presumably a competition among many languages?
How far back to set go?
How far back this modern language go?
How many tens of thousands of years does it go back?
or a hope for what the answer that is.
Well, I would guess that modern language must be older than the cave paintings and cave engravings and cave sculptures and dance steps in the soft clay of the caves in Western Europe in the origination period. Some 35,000 years ago or earlier.
I can't believe they did all those things and didn't also have a lot in language.
So I would guess that the actual origin goes back at least that far and maybe further.
But that doesn't mean that all or many or most of today's line, a tested language, couldn't descend perhaps from one that's much younger than that, like say, 20,000 years or something of that kind.
That's what we call a bottleneck.
Well, Fiddagandison may have been right.
you may just know more about everything than anyone.
So it's been an honor.
Thank you, Mark.
How does the news shape the way we see the world?
Here's the world based on the way it looks based on landmast.
And here's how new shapes what Americans see.
Now this was a month when North Korea agreed to dismantle its nuclear facilities.
There is massive flooding in Indonesia.
And in Paris, the IPCC released its study confirming man's impact on global warming.
The US accounted for 79% of total news coverage.
And when we take out the US and look at the remaining 21% we see a lot of Iraq. That's that big green thing there. And little else.
The combined coverage of Russia, China and India, for example, reached just 1%.
When we analyzed all the news stories and removed just one story, here's how the world looked.
What was that story?
the death of ananacol smel.
This story eclips every country except Iraq and received 10 times the coverage of the IPCC reports.
And the cycles that continues as we all know Brittany has loomed pretty large lately.
So why don't we hear more about the world?
One reason is that news networks have reduced the number of their foreign bureaus by half.
Aside from one person ABC mini bureaus in Nairobi, New Delhi and Mumbai, there are no network news bureaus in all of Africa, India or South America, places that are home to more than two billion people.
The reality is, is that covering Brittany is cheaper.
And this lack of global coverage is all the more disturbing when we see where people go for news.
Local TV news looms large. And unfortunately only dedicates 12% of its coverage to international news.
and what about the web?
The most popular news sites don't do much better.
Last year, Pew and the Columbia J School analyzed the 14,000 stories that appeared on Google News's front page.
and they in fact covered the same 24 news event.
Similarly, a study in E content showed that much of global news from U.S. news creators is recycled stories from the APYR services and writers, and don't put things into a context that people can understand their connection to it.
So if you put it all together, this could help explain why today's college graduates, as well as less educated Americans, no less about the world than their counterparts did 20 years ago.
And if you think that it's simply because we are not interested, you would be wrong.
In recent years, Americans who say they closely follow global news most of the time grew to over 50%.
The real question is this distorted world view? What we want for Americans and are increasingly interconnected world?
I know we can do better.
and can we afford not to?
Thank you.
I have given the slideshow that I gave here two years ago about 2,000 times.
I'm giving a short slide show this morning that I'm giving for the very first time. So, well, it's, I don't want to raise the bar. I'm actually trying to lower the bar.
because I've cobbled this together to try to meet the challenge of this session.
And I was reminded by Karen Armstrong's fantastic presentation that if religion really properly understood is not about belief, but about behavior.
Perhaps we should say the same thing about optimism.
How dare we be optimistic.
Optimism is sometimes characterized as a belief. An intellectual posture.
As Mahatma Gandhi famously said, you must become the change you wish to see in the world. And the outcome about which we wish to be optimistic is not going to be created by the belief alone, except to the extent that the belief brings about new behavior.
But the word behavior is also I think sometimes misunderstood in this context.
I made big advocate of changing the light bulbs and buying hybrids and tip or not, put 33 solar panels on our house and dug the geothermal wells and done all of that other stuff.
But as important as it is to change the light bulbs, it's more important to change the laws.
And when we change our behavior in our daily lives, we sometimes leave out the citizenship part and the democracy part.
In order to be optimistic about this, we have to become incredibly active as citizens in our democracy.
In order to solve the climate crisis, we have to solve the democracy crisis.
and we have one.
I have been trying to tell the story for a long time.
I was reminded of that recently by a woman who walked past the table. I was sitting at just staring at me as she walked past.
She was in her 70s, looked like she had a kind face.
I thought nothing of it until I saw from the corner of my eye. She was walking from the opposite direction, also just staring at me.
And so I said, how do you do? And she said, you know, if you died your hair black, you would look just like Al Gore. Many years ago, when I was a young congressman, I spent an awful lot of time dealing with the challenge of nuclear arms control, and the nuclear arms race.
And the military historians taught me during that quest that military conflicts are typically put into three categories. Local battles, regional or theater wars, and the rare but all important global world war, strategic conflicts.
And each level of conflict requires a different allocation of resources, a different approach, a different organizational model.
Environmental challenges fall into the same three categories, and most of what we think about our local environmental problems, air pollution, water pollution, hazardous waste dumps.
But there are also regional environmental problems like acid rain from the Midwest to the Northeast and from western Europe to the Arctic and from the Midwest out the Mississippi into the dead zone of the Gulf of Mexico.
when there are lots of those.
But the climate crisis is the rare but all important global or strategic conflict.
Everything is effective.
and we have to organize our response appropriately.
We need a worldwide global mobilization for renewable energy, conservation, efficiency, and a global transition to a low-carbon economy.
We have work to do.
and we can mobilize resources and political will.
But the political will has to be mobilized in order to mobilize the resources.
Let me show you these slides here.
I thought I would start with the logo.
What's missing here, of course, is the North Polar Ice Cap.
Greenland remains.
28 years ago, this is what the Polar Ice Cap, the North Polar Ice Cap, looked like at the end of the summer at the Fall Equinox.
This last fall, I went to the Snow and Ice Data Center in Boulder, Colorado and talked to the researchers here in Monterey at the Naval Postgraduate Laboratory.
This is what's happened in the last 28 years.
To put it in perspective, 2005 was the previous record.
Here's what happened last fall that has really, unnerved the researchers.
The North Polar Ice Cap is the same size geographically. It doesn't look that quite the same size, but it is exactly the same size as the United States minus an area roughly equal to the state of Arizona.
The amount that disappeared in 2005 was equivalent to everything used to the Mississippi.
The extra amount that disappeared last fall was equivalent to this much.
comes back in the winter, but not as permanent ice as thin ice vulnerable.
The amount remaining could be completely gone and summer and as little as five years.
that puts a lot of pressure on Greenland.
already around the Arctic Circle. This is a famous village in Alaska.
This is a town in Newfoundland.
Antarctica.
Later studies from NASA.
the amount of moderate to severe snow melting of an area equivalent to the size of California.
They were the best of times over the worst of times. The most famous opening sentence in it, English literature.
I want to share a briefly a tale of two planets.
Earth and Venus are exactly the same size.
Earth's diameter is about 400 kilometers larger, but essentially the same size
They have exactly the same amount of carbon.
But the difference is on earth, most of the carbon has been leached over time out of the atmosphere deposited in the ground as coal, oil, natural gas, et cetera.
on Venus, most of it is in the atmosphere.
The difference is that our temperature is 59 degrees on average.
on Venus, it's 850.
This is relevant to our current strategy of taking as much carbon out of the ground as quickly as possible when putting it into the atmosphere.
It's not because Venus is slightly closer to the sun.
three times hotter than Mercury, which is right next to the sun.
Now, briefly, here's an image you've seen as one of the only old images, but I show it because I want to briefly give you CSI climate.
The global scientific community says, man may global warming pollution put into the atmosphere, thickening this is trapping more of the outgoing infrared.
you all know that.
the last IPCC summary, the scientists wanted to say, how certain are you? They wanted to answer that 99%. The Chinese objected and so the compromise was more than 90%. Now, the skeptics say, oh, wait a minute, this could be variations in this energy coming in from the sun. If that were true, the stratosphere would be heated as well as the lower atmosphere. If it's more coming in,
If it's more being trapped on the way out, then you would expect it to be warmer here and cooler here.
Here is the lower atmosphere.
Here is the stratosphere. Cooler.
CSI climate.
Now, here's the good news.
68% of Americans now believe that human activity is responsible for global warming.
69% believe that the Earth is heating up in a significant way.
There has been progress, but here is the key. When given a list of challenges to confront, global warming is still listed at near the bottom.
What is missing is a sense of urgency.
If you agree with the factual analysis, but you don't feel the sense of urgency, where does that leave you?
Well, the Alliance for Climate Protection, which I had in conjunction with the current TV who did this pro bono, did a worldwide contest to do commercials on how to communicate this.
This is the winner.
I'll show all of the networks here, the top journals for NBC as 956 questions in 2007 of the presidential candidates, two of them were about the climate crisis.
ABC, 844 questions, two about the climate crisis.
Fox 2.
CNN 2.
CBS zero.
from left to left to tear, this is one of the old tobacco commercials.
So here is what we're doing.
This is gasoline consumption in all of these countries.
and us.
But it's not just the developed nations.
The developing countries are now following us and accelerating their pace.
and actually their cumulative emissions this year are the equivalent of where we were in 1965.
and they're catching up very dramatically.
the total concentrations by 2025 they will be essentially where we were in 1980.
If the wealthy countries were completely missing from the picture, we would still have this crisis.
But we have given to the developing countries the technologies and the ways of thinking that are creating the crisis.
This is in Bolivia over 20 over 30 years.
This is peak fishing in a few seconds.
the 60
This
70s.
We have to stop this.
And the good news is that we can.
We have the technologies.
We have to have a unified view of how to go about this. The struggle against poverty in the world and the challenge of cutting wealthy country emissions all has a single very simple solution.
He was like, what's the solution? Here it is.
Put a prize on Carmen.
We need a CO2 tax revenue neutral to replace, to replace taxation on employment, which was invented by Bismarck, and some things have changed since the 19th century.
In the poor world, we have to integrate the responses to poverty with the solutions to the climate crisis.
plans to fight poverty in Uganda are mooted if we do not solve the climate crisis.
But responses can actually make a huge difference in the poor countries.
This is a proposal that has been talked about a lot in Europe.
This was from Nature Magazine.
These are concentrating solar renewable energy plants linked in a so-called super grid to supply all of the electrical power to Europe largely from developing countries, high voltage DC currents.
This is not pie in the sky. This can be done.
We need to do it for our own economy.
the latest figures show that the old model is not working.
There are a lot of great investments that you can make.
If you are investing in tar sands or shale oil, then you have a portfolio that is crammed with subprime carbon assets.
and it is based on an old model.
Junkies find veins in their toes when the ones in their arms in their legs collapse.
Developing tar sands and coal shale is the equivalent.
here just a few of the investments that I personally think make sense.
I have a stake in these, so I'll have a disclaimer there.
but geothermal concentrating solar advanced photovoltaics efficiency and conservation.
You've seen this slide before, but there's a change.
The only two countries that didn't ratify now there's only one.
Australia had an election.
And there was a campaign in Australia that involved television and internet and radio commercials to lift the sense of urgency for the people there.
And we trained 250 people to give the slideshow in every town and village and city in Australia.
A lot of other things contributed to it, but the new Prime Minister announced that his very first priority would be to change Australia's position on Kyoto. And he has.
Now, they came to an awareness partly because of the horrible drought that they have had.
This is Lake Linier.
My friend Heidi Cohen said that if we gave Droughts names the way we give Hurricane's names, we would call the one in the South East now Katrina and we would say it's headed toward Atlanta.
We can't wait for the kind of drought Australia had to change our political culture.
Here's more good news.
Now, to close, we heard a couple of days ago about the value of making individual heroism so commonplace that it becomes banal or routine.
What we need is another hero generation.
I'm working with motion and animation and also I'm an old DJ and a musician.
So music videos is something that I always found interesting, but it always seems to be so reactive.
So I was thinking, can you remove the us as creators and try to make the music be the voice and have the animation following it?
So with two designers, Tolga and Christina at my office, we took a track, many of you probably know it.
It's about 25 years old and it's David Byron and Brian, you know. And we did this little animation.
And I think that it's maybe interesting also that it deals with two problematic issues which is rising waters and religion.
This is so good! So good! Keep going, the wind! Keep going, the wind! Keep going, the wind!
Leave it to! No, to run!
you
I'm the most cheery that we've ever given up.
you
you
you
So big time
And then we had a nocturne all made it up.
Jack said me mama said this feeling later
Far from a very tight. I think we're good. I'm gonna say, oh yes, come on in. It was so dark and we don't think a weird tight.
Good morning.
Let's look for a minute at the greatest icon of all Leonardo da Vinci.
We're all familiar with his fantastic work, his drawing, his paintings, his inventions, his writings.
Bagaimana kita buat sekarang dia?
Thousands of books have been written about him, but there's controversy and it remains about his looks.
Even this well-known portrait is not accepted by many other historians.
So what do you think?
is this the face of Leonardo da Vinci or isn't it?
Let's find out.
They were not a man that drew everything around him.
He drew people anatomy, plants, animals, landscapes, buildings, water, everything.
but no faces.
I find that hard to believe.
His contemporaries made faces like the ones you see here on fuss of three quarters.
So surely a passionate drawer like Leonardo must have made self-witters sometimes a time.
So let's try to find them.
I think that if we were to scan all of his work and look for self-portraits, we would find his face looking at us.
So I looked at all of his drawings more than 700 and looked for male portraits.
There are about 120 you see them here.
which ones of these could be self-portraits?
Well, for that, they have to be done as we just saw on FISO 3 quarters.
mae'n ymneud o'r prothas.
It also has to be sufficient in detail.
So we can also eliminate the ones that are very vague or very stylized.
And we know from his contemporaries that Leonardo was a very handsome, even beautiful man.
Mae'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n y
And look what happens, only three candidates remain that fit the bill.
And here they are.
Yes indeed the old man is there. As is the famous pandrome of the homo
And lastly, the only portrait of a male that Leonardo painted the musician. Before we go into these faces, I should explain why I have some right to talk about them.
I've made more than 1100 portraits myself for newspapers over the course of 30 years, sorry, 30 is only
But there are 1100 and very few artists have drawn so many faces.
So I know a little about drawing and analyzing faces.
Okay, now let's look at these three fortresses.
and hold on to your seeds because if we zoom in on those faces, remark how they have the same broad forehead. The horizontal eyebrows, the long nose, the curved lips and the small well-eveloped chin.
I couldn't believe my eyes when I first saw that.
There is no reason why these portraits should look alike.
All we did was look for a button that had the characteristics of a self-portrait and look they do are very similar.
Now, are they made in the right order?
The young man should be made first.
And as you see it from the years that they were created, it is in the case.
are made in the right order.
What was the age of Leonardo at the time?
And does that feel?
Yes it does.
It was 33, 38 and 63 when these were made.
So we have three pictures, potentially, of the same person, of the same age as Leonardo at the time.
But how do we know it's him and not someone else?
Well, we need a reference.
And here's the only picture of the analysis, why they accepted it.
And to set you made by Verochio, of David for which Leonardo posed as a boy of 15.
And if we now compare the phase of the statue with the phase of the musician, you see the very same features again.
The statue is the reference and it connects the identity of Leonardo to those free faces.
Ladies and gentlemen, this story has not yet been published.
It's only proper that you hear it said, here and see it first.
The icon of icons finally has a face.
Here he is, they are not a Davinci.
I grew up to study the brain because I have a brother who has been diagnosed with a brain disorder, schizophrenia.
And as a sister and later as a scientist, I wanted to understand why is it that I can take my dreams, I can connect them to my reality, and I can make my dreams come true.
What is it about my brother's brain and his schizophrenia that he cannot connect his dreams to a common and shared reality so they instead become delusion?
So I dedicated my career to research into the severe mental illnesses.
And I move from my home state of Indiana to Boston, where I was working in the lab of Dr. Francine Benus in the Harvard Department of Psychiatry.
And in the lab, we were asking the question, what are the biological differences between the brains of individuals who would be diagnosed as normal control? As compared with the brains of individuals diagnosed with schizophrenia, schizophrenia, schizophrenia, schizophrenia, or bipolar disorder? So we were essentially mapping the microcircuitary of the brain, which cells are communicating with which cells, with which chemicals, and then in what quantities of those chemicals.
So there was a lot of meaning in my life because I was performing this type of research during the day. But then in the evenings and on the weekend, I traveled as an advocate for Nlamy, the National Alliance on Mental Illness.
But on the morning of December 10, 1996, I woke up to discover that I had a brain disorder of my own.
A blood vessel exploded in the left half of my brain.
And in the course of four hours, I watched my brain completely deteriorate in its ability to process all information.
On the morning of the ham ridge, I could not walk, talk, read, write, or recall any of my life.
I essentially became an infant in a woman's body.
If you've ever seen a human brain, it's obvious that the two hemispheres are completely separate for one another.
And I have brought for you a real human brain.
So this is a real human brain.
This is the front of the brain, the back of the brain with a spinal cord hanging down. And this is how it would be positioned inside of my head.
And when you look at the brain, it's obvious that the two cerebral core disease are completely separate from one another.
For those of you who understand computers, our right hemisphere functions like a parallel processor. While our left hemisphere functions like a serial processor.
The two hemispheres do communicate with one another through the corpus colosum, which is made up of some 300 million axonel fibers.
But other than that, the two hemispheres are completely separate.
Because they process information differently, each of our hemisphere think about different things. They care about different things. And dare I say, they have very different personalities.
Excuse me.
Thank you.
It's been a joy.
You're so funny.
Our right human hemisphere is all about this present moment.
It's all about right here right now. Our right hemisphere, it thinks in pictures, and it learns kinesthetically through the movement of our bodies.
Information in the form of energy streams in simultaneously through all of our sensory systems and then it explodes into this enormous collage of what this present moment looks like, what this present moment smells like and tastes like, what it feels like and what it sounds like.
I am an energy bean connected to the energy all around me through the consciousness of my right hemisphere.
Our energy beans connected to one another through the consciousness of our right hemispheres as one human family.
And right here, right now, we are brothers and sisters on this planet here to make the world a better place.
And in this moment we are perfect, we are whole, and we are beautiful.
My left hemisphere, our left hemisphere, is a very different place.
Our left hemisphere thinks linearly and methodically.
Our left hemisphere is all about the past and it's all about the future.
Our left hemisphere is designed to take that enormous collage of the present moment and start picking out details, details, and more details about those details.
It then categorizes and organizes all that information, associates it with everything in the past we've ever learned, and projects into the future, all of our possibilities.
And our left hemisphere thinks in language.
It's that ongoing brain chatter that connects me and my internal world to my external world.
It's that little voice that says to me, hey, you got to remember to pick up an analyst on your way home.
I need them in the morning. It's that calculating intelligence that knows that reminds me when I have to do my laundry.
But perhaps most important, it's a little voice that says to me, I am.
I am. And as soon as my left hemisphere says to me, I am. I become separate.
I become a single solid individual separate from the energy flow around me and separate from you.
And this is a portion of my brain that I lost on the morning of my stroke.
On the morning of the stroke, I woke up to a pounding pain behind my left eye.
And it was the kind of pain, caustic pain that you get when you buy them to ice cream.
And it just gripped me and then it released me.
And then it just gripped me and then it released me.
And it was very unusual for me to ever experience any kind of pain, so I thought, OK, I'll just start my normal routine. So I got up and I jumped onto my cardiac lighter, which is a full body full exercise machine.
And I'm jamming away on this thing, and I'm realizing that my hands look like primitive claws grass bin onto the bar.
And I thought that's very peculiar and I looked down at my body and I thought, whoa, I don't know, weird looking thing. And it was as though my consciousness had shifted away from my normal perception of reality where I'm the person on the machine having the experience to some esoteric space where I'm witnessing myself having this experience.
It was all very peculiar and my headache was just getting worse.
So I get off the machine and I'm walking across my living room floor and I realize that everything inside of my body has slowed way down.
And every step is very rigid and very deliberate.
There's no fluidity to my pace and there's this constriction in my area of perception. So I'm just focused on internal systems.
And I'm standing in my bathroom, getting ready to step into the shower, and I could actually hear the dialogue inside of my body.
I heard a little voice saying, okay.
You muscles, you got to contract.
new muscles you relax and now I lost my balance and I'm popped up against the the wall.
And I looked down at my arm and I realized that I can no longer define the boundaries of my body.
I can't define where I begin and where I end because the atoms and the molecules of my arm blended with the atoms and molecules of the wall.
And all I could detect was this energy, energy.
And I'm asking myself, what is wrong with me?
What is going on? And in that moment, my brain chatter, my left hemisphere brain chatter went totally silent.
Just like someone took a remote control and pushed the mute button.
total silence.
And at first I was shocked to find myself inside of a silent mind.
But then I was immediately captivated by the magnificence of the energy around me.
And because I could no longer identify the boundaries of my body, I felt enormous and expansive.
I felt at one with all the energy that was and it was beautiful there.
Then all of a sudden my left hemisphere comes back online and it says to me, hey,
We have a problem.
We got a problem, we got to get some help, but I'm going.
Oh, I got a problem. I got a problem. So it's like, OK, OK, I got a problem. But then I immediately drifted right back out into the consciousness. And I affectionately refer to this space as law law land.
but it was beautiful there.
Imagine what it would be like to be totally disconnected from your brain chatter that connects you to the external world.
So here I am in this space and my job and any stress related to my job, it was gone.
And I felt lighter in my body.
And imagine all of the relationships in the external world and any stressors related to any of those they were gone.
I thought the sense of peacefulness.
Imagine what it would feel like to lose 37 years of emotional battle.
Oh
I thought you for ya. You for ya.
was beautiful
And again, my left hemisphere comes online and it says, hey,
You've got to pay attention.
We've got to get help and I'm thinking I got to get help.
I got a focus. So I get out of the shower and I'm mechanically dressed and I'm walking around my apartment and I'm thinking I gotta get to work.
can I drive? And in that moment my ride arm went totally paralyzed by my side.
Did I realize? Oh my gosh!
I haven't a stroke, I haven't a stroke. And then the next thing my brain says to me is, wow.
This is so cool!
How many brain scientists have the opportunity to study their own brain from the inside out? And then it crosses my mind. But I'm a very busy woman. I have time for a stroke. It's like, OK, I can't stop the stroke from happening. So I'll do this for a week or two, and then I'll get back to my routine.
Okay.
So I got a call, help.
I got to call work. I could remember the number of works. So I remembered in my office I had a business card with my number
So I go into my business room. I pull out a three inch stack of business cards.
And I'm looking at the card on top. And even though I could see clearly in my mind's eye, what my business card looked like, I couldn't tell if this was my card and not because all I could see were pixels.
And the pixels of the words blended with the pixels of the background and the pixels of the symbols and I just couldn't tell you.
And then I would wait for what I call a wave of clarity.
And in that moment, I would be able to reattach to normal reality. And I could tell that's not the card.
That's not the card, that's not the card.
It took me 45 minutes to get one inch down inside of that stack of cards.
In the meantime, for 45 minutes, the hemorrhage is getting bigger in my left hemisphere.
I do not understand numbers. I do not understand a telephone, but see only plan I have.
So I take the foam pad and I put it right here.
I take the business card, I put it right here, and I'm matching the shape of the squiggles on the card to the shape of the squiggles on the foam pad.
But then I would drift back out into Lala land and not remember if when I come back if I'd already dialed those numbers.
So I had to wield my paralyzed arm like a stump and cover the numbers as I went along and pushed them so that as I would come back to normal reality, I'd be able to tell. Yes, I've already dialed that number. That's that. Eventually, the whole number gets dialed and I'm listening to the phone and my colleague picks up the phone and he says to me, and I think that myself, Oh my gosh, he sounds like a goldberry dreamer. And so I say to him, clear in my mind, I say to him, this is just...
I need help and what comes out of my voices. Whoo! Whoo! Where the God of my gosh, I sound like a golden retriever. So I couldn't know that I couldn't speak or understand language until I tried.
So he recognizes that I need help and he gets me help.
And a little while later, I'm writing in an ambulance from one hospital across Boston to Mass General Hospital.
And I curl up into a little fetal ball.
And just like a balloon with the last bit of air, just right out of the balloon. I just felt my energy lift and just, I felt my spirit surrender.
And in that moment, I knew that I was no longer the choreographer of my life.
And either the doctors rescue my body and give me a second chance a life or this was perhaps my moment of transition.
When I woke later that afternoon I was shocked to discover that I was still alive.
When I felt my spirit surrender, I said goodbye to my life.
And my mind was now suspended between two very opposite planes of reality.
Stimulation coming in through my sensory systems felt like pure pain.
light burned my brain like wildfire and sounds were so loud and chaotic that I could not pick a voice out from the background noise and I just wanted to escape.
because I could not identify the position of my body in space. I felt enormous and expansive. Like a genie just liberated from her bottle.
And my spirit soared free like a great way of gliding through a sea of silent euphoria.
never
I found Nirvana.
I remember thinking there's no way I would ever be able to squeeze the enormousness of myself back inside this tiny little body.
but then I realize, but I'm still alive.
I'm still alive, and I have found there's one of them.
And if I have found Nirvana and I'm still alive, then everyone who is alive can find Nirvana. And I pictured a world filled with beautiful, peaceful, compassionate, loving people who knew that they could come to this space at any time.
and that they could purposely choose to step to the right of their left hemispheres and find this piece.
And then I realized, what a tremendous gift this experience could be. What a stroke of insight this could be to how we live our lives.
and it motivated me to recover.
Two and a half weeks after the hemorrhage, the surgeons went in and they removed a blood clot the size of a golf ball that was pushing on my language centers.
Here I am with my mama, who's a true angel in my life.
It took me eight years to completely recover.
So who are we?
who are the life force power of the universe with manual dexterity and two cognitive minds.
And we have the power to choose moment by moment, who and how we want to be in the world.
Right here, right now I can step into the consciousness of my right hemisphere where we are.
I am the life force power of the universe.
I am the lifeless power of the 50 trillion beautiful molecular geniuses that make up my form. And one with all that is.
Or I can choose to step into the consciousness of my left hemisphere, where I become a single individual. A solid.
Separate from the flow. Separate from you.
I am Dr. Jill Bolte Taylor, intellectual, neuroanatomist.
These are the we inside of me.
Which would you choose?
Which do you choose?
and when.
I believe that the more time we spend choosing to run the deep inner peace circuitry of our right hemisphere. The more peace we will project into the world and the more peaceful our planet will be.
And I thought that was an idea we're spreading.
You
I'm here to enlist you in helping reshape the story about how humans and other critters get things done.
Here's the old story. We've already heard a little bit about it. Biology is war, in which only the fiercest survive. Businesses and nations succeed only by defeating, destroying, and dominating competition. politics is about your side winning at all costs.
But I think we can see the very beginnings of a new story beginning to emerge.
It's a narrative spread across a number of different disciplines in which cooperation, collective action, and complex interdependencies play a more important role
and the central, but not all important role of competition and survival of the fittest, shrinks just a little bit to make room.
I started thinking about the relationship between communication, media, and collective action when I wrote smart mobs. And I found that when I finished the book, I kept thinking about it.
In fact, if you look back, human communication media and the ways in which we organize socially have been co-volving for quite a long time.
Humans have lived for much, much longer than approximately 10,000 years of settled agricultural civilization in small family groups.
Nomadic hunters bring down rabbits gathering food.
The form of wealth in those days was enough food to stay alive.
But at some point, they banded together to hunt bigger games.
And we don't know exactly how they did this, although they must have solved some collective action problems. It only makes sense that you can't hunt master dons while you're fighting with the other groups.
And again, we have no way of knowing, but it's clear that a new form of wealth must have emerged.
more protein than the hunter's family could eat before it rotted.
So that raised a social question that I believe must have driven new social forums.
did the people who ate that mass did on me owe something to the hunters and their families.
And if so, how do they make arrangements?
Again, we can't know, but we can be pretty sure that some form of symbolic communication must have been involved.
Of course, with agriculture came the first big civilizations, the first cities built of mud and brick, the first empires.
And it was the administrators of these empires who began hiring people to keep track of the wheat and sheep and wine that was owed and the taxes that was owed on them by making marks. Marks on clay in that time.
Not too much longer after that, the alphabet was invented.
And this powerful tool was really reserved for thousands of years for the elite administrators who kept track of accounts for the empires.
And then another communication technology enabled new media. The printing press came along and within decades millions of people became literate.
and from literate populations, new forms of collective action emerged in the spheres of knowledge, religion, and politics.
We saw scientific revolutions, the Protestant Reformation, constitutional democracies, possible where they had not been possible before.
not created by the printing press, but enabled by the collective action that emerges from literacy.
and again, new forms of wealth emerged.
Now commerce is ancient.
Markets are as old as the crossroads.
But capitalism, as we know, it is only a few hundred years old, enabled by cooperative arrangements and technologies such as the Joint Stock Ownership Company, shared liability insurance, double entry bookkeeping.
Now of course the enabling technologies are based on the internet. And in many, many, many era, every desktop is now a printing press, a broadcasting station, a community, or a marketplace.
Evolution is speeding up.
More recently, that power is untethering and leaping off the desktops. And very, very quickly, we're going to see a significant portion if not the majority of the human race walking around holding, carrying or wearing, supercomputers, linked at speeds greater than what we consider to be broadband today.
Now when I started looking into collective action, the considerable literature on it, based on what sociologists call social dilemmas, there are a couple of mythic narratives of social dilemmas.
I'm going to talk briefly about two of them, the prisoners dilemma and the tragedy of the commons.
Now when I talked about this with Kevin Kelly, he assured me that everybody in this audience pretty much knows the details of the prisoners dilemma. So I'm just going to go over that very, very quickly.
If you have more questions about it, ask Kevin Kelly later.
The President's dilemma is actually a story that's overlaid on a mathematical matrix that came out of the game theory in the early years of thinking about nuclear war, two players who couldn't trust each other.
Let me just say that every unscured transaction is a good example of a prisoner's dilemma.
Person with the goods, person with the money, because they can't trust each other, are not going to exchange.
Neither one wants to be the first one, or are they going to get the suckers pay off. But both lose, of course, because they don't get what they want.
They could only agree. If they could only turn prisoners to Lema into a different payoff matrix called an insurance game, they could proceed.
20 years ago, Robert Axelrod used the prisoners dilemma as a probe of the biological question. If we're here because our ancestors were such fierce competitors, how does cooperation exist at all?
He started a computer tournament for people to submit prisoners, dilemma, strategies, and discovered much to his surprise at a very, very simple strategy one. It won the first tournament, and even after everyone knew it one, it won the second tournament. That's known as tip for Tath.
Another economic game that may not be, as well known as the Prisoners dilemma, is the ultimatum game. And it's also a very interesting probe of our assumptions about the way people make economic transactions.
Here's how the game's played. There are two players that never played the game before, they will not play it again. They don't know each other and they are in fact in separate rooms.
First player is offered a hundred dollars and is asked to propose a split. 50, 50, 90, 10, whatever that player wants to propose.
The second player either accepts the split, both players are paid and the game is over, or rejects the split, neither player is paid and the game is over.
Now that fundamental basis of neoclassical economics would tell you, it's irrational to reject a dollar because somebody you don't know in another room is going to get 99.
Yet, in thousands of trials with American and European and Japanese students, a significant percentage would reject any offer that's not close to
And although they were screened and didn't know about the game and had never played the game before, Proposers seemed to innately know this because the average proposal was surprisingly close to
Now, the interesting part comes in more recently when anthropologists began taking this game to other cultures and discovered to their surprise that slash-in-burn agriculturalists in the Amazon or nomadic pastoralists in Central Asia or it does in different cultures each had radically different ideas of what is fair.
which suggests that instead of being an innate sense of fairness, that somehow the basis of our economic transactions can be influenced by our social institutions, whether we know that or not.
The other major narrative of social dilemmas is the tragedy of the Commons.
Garrett Harden used it to talk about overpopulation in the late 1960s.
used the example of a common grazing area in which each person by simply maximizing their own flock led to overgrazing in the depletion of the resource.
You have the rather gloomy conclusion that humans will inevitably destroy all any common pool resource in which people cannot be restrained for using it.
Now, Eleanor Osterm, a political scientist in 1990, asked the interesting question that any good scientist should ask, which is, is it really true that humans will always destroy all commons?
So she went out and looked at what data she could find.
To look at thousands of cases of human sharing watersheds, forestry resources, fisheries, and discover that yes, in case after case, humans destroyed the commons that they depended on.
But she also found many instances in which people escaped the prisoners dilemma. In fact, the tragedy of the Commons is a multiplayer prisoner's dilemma.
And she said that people are only prisoners if they consider themselves to be.
They escape by creating institutions for collective action.
And she discovered, I think, most interestingly, that among those institutions that worked, there were a number of common design principles. And those principles seem to be missing from those institutions that don't work.
I'm moving very quickly over a number of disciplines.
And biology, the notions of symbiosis group selection, evolutionary psychology are contested to be sure.
But there is really no longer any major debate over the fact that cooperative arrangements have moved from a peripheral role to a central role in biology from the level of the cell to the level of the ecology.
And again, our notions of individuals as economic beings have been overturned.
rational self-interest is not always the dominating factor.
In fact, people will act upon his cheaters even at a cost to themselves.
And most recently, Neurophysiological measures have shown that people who punish cheaters and economic gains show activity in the reward centers of their brain.
which led one scientist to declare that altruistic punishment may be the glue that holds societies together.
Now, I've been talking about how new forms of communication and new media in the past have helped create new economic forms.
the commerce is ancient.
markets are very old.
Capitalism is fairly recent socialism emerged as a reaction to that.
And yet we see very little talk about how the next form may be emerging.
Jim Sirawiki briefly mentioned, Yokehai Bankler's paper about open source pointing to a new form of production, peer to peer production.
I simply want you to keep in mind that if in the past new forms of cooperation enabled by new technologies create new forms of wealth, we may be moving into yet another economic form that is significantly different from previous ones.
Very briefly let's look at some businesses.
IBM, as you know, HP son, some of the most fierce competitors in the IT world are open sourcing their software, are providing portfolios of patents for the commons.
Eli Lilly, and again, the fiercely competitive pharmaceutical world has created a market for solutions for pharmaceutical problems.
Toyota instead of treating its suppliers as a marketplace, treats them as a network and trains them to produce better even though they are also training them to produce better for their competitors.
Now none of these companies are doing this out of altruism. They're doing it because they're learning that a certain kind of sharing is in their self-interest.
open source production has shown us that world class software, like Linux and Mazzilla, can be created with neither the bureaucratic structure of the firm nor the incentives of the marketplace as we've known them.
Google enriches itself by enriching thousands of bloggers through ad-sense.
Amazon has opened its application programming interface to 60,000 developers, countless Amazon shops.
They're enriching others, not out of altruism, but as a way of enriching themselves.
eBay solved the prisoners dilemma and created a market where none would have existed by creating a feedback mechanism that turns a prisoner's dilemma game into an assurance game.
Instead of neither us contrast each other so we have to make suboptable moves. It's you prove to me that you're trustworthy and I will cooperate. Wikipedia has used thousands of volunteers to create a free encyclopedia with a million and a half articles in 200 languages in just a couple of years.
We've seen that think cycle has enabled NGOs and developing countries to put up problems to be solved by design students around the world, including something that's being used for tsunami relief right now. It's a mechanism for rehydrating color of victims that's so simple to use that alliterates can be trained to use it.
Torrent turns every downloader into an uploader making a system more efficient the more it is used.
Millions of people have contributed their desktop computers when they're not using them to link together through the internet into super computing collectives that helps solve the protein folding problem for medical researchers that's folding at home, it's Stanford, to crack codes, to search for life and outer space,
I don't think we know enough yet.
I don't think we've even begun to discover what the basic principles are, but I think we can begin to think about them.
And I don't have enough time to talk about all of them, but think about self-interest.
This is all about self-interest that adds up to more.
in El Salvador, both sides that withdrew from their civil war took moves that have been proven to mirror a prisoner's dilemma strategy.
is an Apollo project of cooperation possible.
a transdisciplinary study of cooperation.
I believe that the payoff would be very big.
I think we need to begin developing maps of this territory so that we can talk about it across disciplines.
And I am not saying that understanding cooperation is going to cause us to be better people. And sometimes people cooperate to do bad things. But I will remind you that a few hundred years ago, people saw their loved ones die from diseases they thought were caused by sin or foreigners or evil spirits.
Daycarts said we need an entire new way of thinking.
When the scientific method provided that new way of thinking and biology, show that microorganisms caused disease suffering was alleviated.
What forms of suffering could be alleviated? What forms of wealth could be created if we knew a little bit more about cooperation?
I don't think that this transdisciplinary discourse is automatically going to happen. It's going to require effort.
So I enlist you to help me get the cooperation project started.
Thank you.
So I thought I would talk about depth. It seemed to be the passion today.
actually it's not about death.
It's inevitable, terrible, but really what I want to talk about is I'm just fascinated by the legacy people leave when they die.
That's what I want to talk about.
So Ardbach wall left his legacy of humor with a video that appeared soon after he died saying, hi.
I'm Art Buckwell and I just died. And Mike, who I met at Gallapagos, which I won a TED, is leaving notes on cyberspace, where he's chronicling his journey through cancer.
and my father left me a legacy of his handwriting through letters and a notebook.
In the last two years of his life when he was sick, he filled a notebook with his thoughts about me.
He wrote about my strengths, weaknesses, and gentle suggestions for improvement. Coding, coding specific incidents and held a mirror to my life.
after he died I realized that no one writes to me anymore.
Hand rating is a disappearing art.
I'm all for email and thinking while typing, but why give up all habits for new?
Why can't we have letter writing and email exchange in our lives?
There are times when I want to trade all those years that I was too busy to sit with my dad and chat with him and trade all those years for one hug.
But to late.
But that's when I take out his letters and I read them. And the paper that touched his hand is in mine and I feel connected to him.
So maybe we all need to leave our children with the value of legacy and not of an ancient one.
a value for things with a personal touch. An autograph book, a soul searching letter.
If a fraction of this powerful terrarians could be inspired by a beautiful paper, John, it'll be recycled one. And write a beautiful letter to someone they love. We actually may start a revolution where our children may go to penmanship classes.
So what do I plan to leave for my son?
I collect autographed books and those of you authors in the audience know I hound you for them. And CD's too Tracy.
I plan to publish my own notebook.
as I witnessed my father's body being swallowed by fire. I sat by his funeral pyre and wrote.
I have no idea how I'm going to do it, but I am committed to compiling his thoughts and mind into a book and leave that publish book for my son.
I'd like to end with a few verses of what I wrote at my father's cremation.
and those linguists please pardon the grammar because I've not looked at it in the last 10 years.
I took it out for the first time to come here.
Picture in a frame, Ashes in a bottle, boundless energy confined in the bottle, forcing me to deal with reality, forcing me to deal with being grown up.
I hear you and I know that you would want me to be strong. But right now, I'm being sucked down, surrounded and suffocated by these raging emotional waters, craving to cleanse my soul, trying to emerge on a firm footing one more time to keep on fighting and fluttershing just as you taught me.
You're encouraging with spurs in my role pull of despair, holding me and heaving me to shores of sanity, to live again and to love again. Thank you.
I am very, very happy to be a midist, some of the most, the lights are really disturbing my eyes and they are reflecting on my glasses.
I am very happy and honored to be a midist, very, very innovative and intelligent people.
I have listened to the three previous speakers and guess what happened.
Every single thing I plan to say, they have said it here and it looks and sounds like I have nothing else to say.
But there is a saying in my culture that if a bad leaves a tree without saying something, that bad is a young one.
So I will, since I am not young and I'm very old, I still will say something.
We are hosting this conference at a very opportune moment because another conference is taking place in Berlin.
It is the G8 Summit.
The G8 summit proposes that the solution to Africa's problems should be a massive increase in aid, something akin to the macho plan.
Unfortunately, I personally do not believe in the masher plan.
One because the benefits of the Masha plan have been overstated.
average African country receives foreign aid to the tune of 13, 15% of its GDP, and that is unprecedented transfer of financial resources from rich countries to poor countries.
Batê-o antes de ser! Está de a 2-3 minutos, conecte!
How the media covers Africa in the West and the consequences of that?
by displaying the spare helplessness and hopelessness. The media is telling the truth about Africa and nothing but the truth.
However, the media is not telling us the whole truth.
because despair, civil war, hunger and famine. Although their part and part of our African reality, they are not the only reality
And secondly, they are the smallest reality.
Afrika hat es 5.3 N.
We have civil wars only in six countries, which means as the media are covering only six countries.
Afroq has immense opportunities that never navigate through the way of despair and helplessness that the Western media largely presents to its audience.
But the effect of that presentation is it appeals to sympathy.
It appeals to pity.
It appeals to something called charity.
And as a consequence, the Western view of Africa's economic dilemma is from the wrongly.
The wrong framing is a product of thinking that Africa is a place of despair.
What should we do with it?
We should give food to the hungry.
ويشد دلفمات سنسة ذوائيل
We should do send peacekeeping troops. Serve those whaffers in the civil war.
Any of the process Africa has been stripped of self-initiative.
I want to say that it is important to recognize that Africa has fundamental weaknesses.
but equally it has opportunities underlourve potential.
We need to reframe the challenge that is facing Africa. From a challenge of despair, despair which is called poverty reduction, to a challenge of hope.
我们在这儿的宽子里面的生命是好
The challenge for us in Africa is not a challenge over reducing the population.
It should be a challenge of creating wealth.
Once we change those two things, if you say the Africans are poor and they need poverty reduction, you have the international hotel of good intentions moving on to the continent with what?
medicines for the poor, food relief for those who are hungry and piscuits for those who are facing civil war.
and in the process, none of these things are really productive because you are treating the symptoms, not the causes of Africa's fundamental problems.
Ibu, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita, yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yvita yv
wealth is a function of income and income comes from you finding a profitable trading opportunity or a well-paying job.
Now, once we begin to talk about world's creation in Africa, our second challenge will be who are the world's first in essence in a society.
they are unspronuals.
But all of us, they are always about 4% of the population. The 16% are imitators.
mas de orso sakside a desjubo fons por russia
So where should we put in the money?
We need to put money where it can productive the growth.
Support private investment in Africa, both domestic and foreign.
Support, research institutions, because knowledge is an important part of world's creation.
But what is the international aid of community doing at Afro-Katubei?
They are throwing large sums of money for primary health, for primary education, for food relief.
The entire content has been turned into a place of despair in need of charity.
Naiba, yfren, yrela, yfren, yrela, yfren, yrela, yfren, yrela, yfren, yrela, yfren, yrela, yfren, yrela, yfren, yrela, yfren, yrela, yfren, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela, yrela yrela yrela yrela yrela yrela yrela yrela yrela yrela yrela yrela yrela yrela yrela yrela yrela yrela yrela yrela yrela yrela yrela yrela yrela yrela yrela yrela yrela yrela yrela yrela
By holding the begging bow and receiving arms.
Das Ende und auf jeden Fall die Audios haben wir das.
Does anyone of you know a country that developed because of the generosity and the kindness of another?
Well, since I'm not seeing the hand, it appears that what I'm stating is true.
I can see,
Wutschrank bis dann?
Thank you very much.
Tapi saya minta... saya minta maaf.
Extrano actors can only present you an opportunity.
The ability to utilize that opportunity and turn it into another advantage depends on your internal capacity.
Afrika, hazle si v dmenopočunitis.
Men of them we haven't benefited.
Why?
because we lack the institutional framework and the policy framework that can make it possible for us to benefit from our external relations.
I'll give you an example.
Nama, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa, yvonagawa yvonagawa yvonagawa yvonagawa yvonagawa yvonagawa yvonagawa yvonagawa yvonagawa yvonagawa yvonagawa yv
My own country Uganda has it a quarter to export 50,000 metric tons of sugar to the European Union market.
We haven't exported one kilogram yet.
We import 50,000 ethnic tanks of sugar from Brazil and Cuba.
Φεκανά, ανταδεμήφη πρώτοκοδεταγραμμένου, αφού can countries that produce beef have bought us the export beef due to free to the European Union market.
Nanti, terlalu dikis dikis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis-kis
So I want to add you today that the fundamental source of Africa's inability to engage the rest of the world in a more productive relationship is because it has a poor institutional and poor suffering work.
and all forms of intervention need support the evolution of the kind of institutions that create wealth, the kind of institutions that increase productivity.
How do we begin to do that and why is aid the butt instrument?
8 is the bad instrument.
και όλοι έχουμε το μόνο, να δούμε το μόνο της Ευρώτης.
Mane is needed for a simple thing like keeping low and order.
You have to pay the am and the police to show a warrant order.
Ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa, ytagawa
The second thing you need to do is pay your political handgun.
Why should people support government?
而因為它會不會變化,而在美國的国際上,而是必然而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而不必而
The sad is no government in the world with exception of a few like that of idiomine can seek to depend entirely on force as an instrument of rule.
Men are countries in the village, they need the legitimacy.
To get legitimacy, governments often need to deliver things like primary education, primary health, roads, build hospitals and clinics.
If the government's fiscal survival depends on it having to raise money from its own people, such a government is driven by self interest to govern in a more enlightened fashion.
Είμαι ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο Βαριαίδις, ο
Talk to them about the kind of policies and institutions that are necessary. For them to expand their scale and scope of business so that it can collect more tax revenues from them.
The problem with the African continent and the problem with the aid industry is that it has distorted the structure of incentives facing the government in Africa.
The productive margin in our government's such for revenue does not lie in the domestic economy. It lies with international donors.
I can tell you, if any of you have 10 PhDs, you can never be Bill Gates in understanding the computer industry.
Why?
because the knowledge that is required for you to understand the incentive necessary to expand the business requires that you listen to the people, the private sector actors in that industry.
Gavmensi nafrika haferafabin givin, ano potilita by the international community, to avoid building productive arrangements with your own citizens, and therefore allowed to begin endless negotiations with the IMF and the World Bank and then with the IMF and the World Bank that tear them what the citizens need.
In the process, with African people have been said to land from the policy making, policy re-intention and policy implementation process in our countries.
Nous avons l'hiver de l'hiver de la pâte de cause, qui ne peut pas le faire pas.
The IMF, the World Bank and the Caterna of Good Intentiones in the World has taken over our rights as citizens, and therefore what our governments are doing, because they depend on aid, is to listen to international credit as rather than the Iran citizens.
és a kivételmályagymet. És ez az egyéb, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt, és előtt
Some aid may have built a hospital, treated a hungry
rather fed hungry village. It may have built their road and that road may have suffered a very good road.
The mistake of the international aid industry is to pick these isolated incidents of success, generalize them, power billions and billions of dollars into them, and then spread them across the whole world, ignoring the specific and unique circumstances in a given village, the skills, the practices, the norms and habits that allowed that small, either project succeed, like in Saudi village, in Kenya, where Jefferson's Axis is working, and therefore, generalize this experience as the experience of everybody.
8 increases the resources available to governments. And that makes working in the government the most profitable thing you can have as a person in Africa seeking a career.
by increasing the political attractiveness of the state, especially in our ethnically fragmented societies in Africa, aid tends to accentuate ethnic tensions as ever a single ethnic group. Now begins struggling to enter the state in order to get access to the foreign aid pie.
Kaili, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi, yungi,
Govmen Sanot Chengit.
Why?
because they don't need to talk to their own citizens.
They talk to international donors.
So, the most enterprising Africans end up going to work for government and that has increased the political tensions in our countries, precisely because we depend on aid.
I also want to say that it is important for us to not that over the last 50 years Africa has been receiving increasing aid from the international community. In form of technical assistance and financial aid and all other forms of aid.
between 1960 and 2003, our continental received $600 billion of aid. And we are still told that there is a lot of poverty in Africa.
Where has all the aid gone?
I want to use the example of my own country called Uganda and the kind of structure of incentives that aid has brought there.
Dans la 2006-2007 budget, l'expecte de revenu 2.5 trillion, chez l'île.
expected for an 8-1.0 trillion.
karen tikspendisha by recurrent, wa doi min.
Handeth mouth is 2.6 trillion.
Why does the government of Uganda budget spend 110% of its own revenue?
It's because they're somebody they're called for an aid, who contributes for it.
But this shows you that the government of Uganda is not committed to spending its own revenue, to invest in productive investments, but rather it devotes this revenue to paying structural public expenditure.
the public administration, which is largely patronage, the 600 and 90 billion.
The military 300 and 80.
agriculture which employs 18% of our poverty, street and citizens, takes only 18 billion.
Shaden industry. Text Fortes 3 billion.
And let me show you what does public expenditure rather public administration expenditure in Uganda constitute?
There you go!
Sevent a cabinet minister's, 114 presidential advisors by the way, could never see the president except on television.
We have eight to one units of local government.
ijilahogavmenti zorganizlek, decentrogavment, ebirokrasi ekabinate palament, and so many jobs for the political hangazone.
Ywai 56, ywai 1001, ywai 62, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, ywai 1001, yw
300 dançadas no mesmo bairro de palamentos.
You need Wemble Stadium Trosta Opalament.
100 and 34 commissions and semi-autonomous government bodies and semi-autonomous government bodies all of which have directives and cars
and the final thing, this is addressed to Mr. Bono.
in his work he may help us on this.
The recent government of Uganda stood the found that there are three South and four wheel drive motor vehicles at the Ministry of Health and Quotals.
Yugand hazineen 160 sapa kautis, yunga zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zahalimu zah
So the four-wheel drive vehicles at the headquarters, drive the ministers, the permanent secretaries, the bureaucrats and the international aid bureaucrats who work in aid projects, while the poor die without ambulances and medicine.
Finally, I want to say that before I can speak here, I was told that the principal of Ted Glober is that the wood speech should be like a miniscule.
It should be sure enough to arose interest, but long enough to cover the subject.
I hope I have a cheer for you.
very much.
I really am honored to be here and as Chris said, it's been over 20 years since I started working in Africa.
My first introduction was at the Abjana Airport on us, wedi, Ivocosh Coast morning.
I had just left Wall Street, cut my hair to look like Margaret Meade, giving away most everything that I owned and arrived with all the essentials and poetry, few clothes and of course a guitar, because I was going to save the world and I thought I would just start with the African continent.
But literally within days of arriving, I was told to know uncertain terms by a number of West African women that African's didn't want saving, thank you very much. These people are not by me.
I was too young, unmarried, had no children. Didn't really know Africa and the size my French was pitiful.
So it was an incredibly painful time in my life. And yet, it really started to give me the humility to start listening.
I think that failure can be an incredibly motivating force as well. So I moved to Kenya and worked in Uganda and I met a group of who were warned in women who asked me in 1986 to move to Kigali to help them start the first microfinance institution there.
And I did, and we ended up naming it due to the number day to mean, meaning to go forward with enthusiasm. And while we were doing it, I realized that there weren't a lot of businesses that were viable and started by women, and so maybe I should try to run a business too.
and so I started looking around and I heard about a bakery that was run by 20 prostitutes.
And being a little intrigued, I went to go meet this group. And what I found was 20 unwaired mothers who were trying to survive.
And it was really the beginning of my understanding the power of language and how the what we call people so often distances us from them and makes them little.
I also found out that the bakery was nothing like a business. In fact, it was a classic charity run by a well-intentioned person who essentially spent $600 a month to keep these 20 women busy, making little crafts and baked goods, and living on 50 cents a day still in poverty.
So I made a deal with women.
I said, look, we get rid of the charity side and we run this as a business and I'll help you. They nervously agreed.
I nervously started and of course things are always harder than you think they're going to be.
First of all, I thought, well, we need a sales team and we clearly aren't the A team here. So let's, I'll did all this training.
And the epitome was when I literally marched into the streets of Yamarambu, which is the popular quarter of Kigali with a bucket. And I sold all these little donuts to people. And I came back and I was like, you see? And the women said, you know, Jacqueline, who in Yamarambu is not going to buy donuts out of an orange bucket from a Tull American woman? And it's good, boy.
Tonight I went the whole American mile with competitions, team and individual.
completely felt, but over time the women learn to sell it on their own way.
and they started listening to the marketplace and they came back with ideas for conservatives and binatachips and sorghum bread and before you knew it we had cornered the key godly market and the women were earning three to four times the national average.
And when that confidence surge, I thought, well, it's time to create a real bakery. So let's paint it. Women said that's a really great idea. And my soul would color, do you want to paint it? And they said, well, you choose. And I said, no, no, no, I'm learning to listen.
You choose.
It's your bakery, your street, your country, not mine. But they wouldn't give me an answer.
So one week two weeks three weeks went by and finally I said well how about blue and they said blue blue we love blue
Let's do a blue star. I went to the store. I brought go dance to the Recalcetron, one of all. And we bought all this paint and fabric to make curtains. And on painting day, we all gathered in Yamurambo. And the idea was we would paint it white with blue, it's trim, like a little French bakery.
But I was clearly not as fat satisfying as painting a wall of blue like a morning sky.
So blue, blue, everything became blue.
the Walsh Republic of Winders Republic of the sidewalk out front was painted blue.
And a Reeth of Franklin was shouting RESP, ECT, the women's hips were swaying and little kids were trying to grab the pain pressures but it was there day.
And at the end of it, we stood across the street. And we looked at what we had done. And I said, it is so beautiful. And the women said, it really is. And I said, and I think the color's perfect. And they all, not at their head, except for a go-dance. And I said, what? And she said nothing. And I said, what? And she said, well, it is pretty. But you know, our color really, it is green. And I learned then that listening isn't just about patients, but that when you've lived on charity and dependent your whole life long, it's really hard to say what you mean.
And mostly because people never really ask you, and when they do, you don't really think they want to know the truth.
And so that I learned that listening is not only about waiting, but it's also learning how better to ask questions.
And so I lived in Gigal at for about two and a half years doing these two things and it was an extraordinary time in my life.
and it taught me three lessons that I think are so important for us today and certainly in the work that I do.
The first is that dignity is more important to the human spirit than wealth.
as Elena said, as white one people gain income they gain choice and that is fundamental to dignity.
But as human beings, we also want to see each other. We want to be heard by each other. We should never forget that.
The second is that traditional poverty in aid are never going to solve the problems of poverty.
I think Andrew pretty well covered that, so I will move to the third points, which is that markets alone also are not going to solve the problems of poverty.
Yes, we ran this as a business, but someone needed to pay the philanthropic support that came into the training and the management support, the strategic advice, and maybe most important of all, the access to new context networks and new markets.
And so on a micro level, there's a real role for this combination of investment and philanthropy.
And on a macro level, some of the speakers have inferred that even health should be privatized.
But having had a father with heart disease and realizing that what our family could afford was not what he should have gotten and having a good friend step in to help. I really believe that all people deserve access to health and prices they can afford.
I think the market can help us figure that out. But there's got to be a charitable component, or I don't think we're going to create the kind of societies we want to live in.
And so it was really those lessons that made me decide to build acumen fine about six years ago.
It's a nonprofit venture capital fund for the poor. Few oxymorons in one sentence.
It essentially raises charitable funds from individuals, foundations and corporations, and then we turn around, and we invest equity and loans in both for-profit and non-profit entities that deliver affordable health, housing, energy, clean water, to low-income people in South Asia and Africa so that they can make their own choices.
We've invested about $20 million in 20 different enterprises and have, in so doing created nearly 20,000 jobs and delivered tens of millions of services to people who otherwise would not be able to afford them.
I want to tell you two stories.
both of them are in Africa.
both of them are about investing in entrepreneurs who are committed to service and who really know the markets.
Both of them live at the confluence of public health and enterprise. And both of them because they are manufacturers, create jobs directly, and create incomes indirectly because they're in the malaria sector. And Africa loses about $13 billion a year because of malaria.
And so as people get healthier, they also get wealthier.
The first one is called the Vance Bio Extracts Limited.
It's a company built in Kenya about seven years ago by an incredible entrepreneur in Patrick Kenfrey and his three colleagues.
these are old hand farmers who've gone through all the agricultural ups and downs in Kenya over the last 30
Now this plant is an art of music plant. It's the basic component for art of listening, which is the best known treatment from malaria.
It's indigenous to China and the Far East. But given that the prevalence of malaria is here in Africa, Patrick and his colleague said, let's bring it here because it's a high value ad product. The farmers get three to four times the yield that they would with maize.
And so using patient capital, many that they could raise early on that actually got below market returns and was willing to go to the long haul and be combined with management assistance strategic assistance. They've now created the company where they purchased from 7,500 farmers.
That's about 50,000 people affected.
And I think some of you may have visited. These farmers are helped by Kickstarter and technosurf who help them become more self-sufficient.
They buy it, they dry it, and they bring it to this factory, which purchased in part by, again, patient capital from Novartis, who was real interest in getting the powder so that they can make coartum.
We're working with Abe for the past year, year and a half. Both on looking at a new business plan, what does expansion look like, helping with management support and helping to do term shifts and raise capital.
And I really understood what patient capital meant emotionally in the last month or so.
because the company was literally 10 days away from proving that the product they produced was at the world quality level needed to make Quartam. When they were in the biggest cash crisis of their history.
And we called all of the social investors we know.
Now some of these same social investors are really interested in Africa and understand the importance of agriculture and they even help the farmers.
And even when we explain that, if Ab goes away, all those 700 jobs go away too. We sometimes have this bifurcation between business and the social.
And it's really time we start thinking more creatively about how they can be fused.
So, Aku and Maid not one but two bridge loans and the good news is they did indeed meet world quality classification and are now in the final stages of closing at $20 million around to move it to the next level and I think that this will be one of the more important companies in East Africa.
This is Samu Lee's.
to find my.
He was actually living in the Kibara slums when his father called him and told him about art of media and the value of potential.
So we move back to the farm and long straight short they now have seven acres under cultivation.
Samiles Kizzer and private school and he's starting to help other farmers in the area also go into our music production. Dignity being more important than wealth.
The next one, um, many of you know.
I talked about it a little at Oxford two years ago and some of you visited a Desette manufacturing which is one of the great real companies in East African
It's another one that lives at the confluence of health and enterprise.
And this is really a story about a public-private solution that has really worked.
It started in Japan.
So, we're talking about technology, essentially, to impregnate a polyethylene-based fiber with organic insecticides. So, you could create a bednet, malaria bednet that would last five years and not need to be redepped.
could alter the vector. But like Artemisia, it had been produced only in East Asia.
And as part of its social responsibility, Simeo Thomas said, why don't we experiment with whether we can produce it in Africa for Africans? UNICEF came forward and said, we'll buy most of the nets, and then we'll give them away as part of the global funds and the UN's commitment to pregnant women and children for free. Akiman came in with the patient capital, and we also helped to identify the entrepreneur that we would all partner with here in Africa. And ex-son provided the initial reason.
well in looking around it for entrepreneurs there was none better that we could find honor than a new shot and a visit manufacturing company
It's a 40-year-old company. It understands manufacturing.
It's gone from socialist Tanzania into capital Tanzania and continued for flourish.
had about a thousand employees when we first found it.
And so, I newsed to the entrepreneurial risk here in Africa to produce a public good that was purchased by the aid establishment to work with malaria.
And long story short again, they've been so successful.
When our first year, the first net one went off the line in October of 2003.
We thought the hitting it out of the box. Number was 150,000 nets a year.
This year they are now producing 8 million nets a year and they employ 5,000 people 90% of whom are women mostly on skilts.
They're an adjoint venture with Sumitama.
and so from an enterprise perspective for Africa and from a public health perspective, these are real successes.
But it's only half the story if we're really looking at solving problems of poverty because it's not long-term sustainable.
to company with one big customer.
And if avian flu hits her for any other reason, the world decides that malaria is no longer as much of a priority. Everybody loses.
And so, a news and an argument have been talking about testing the private sector because the assumption that the aid establishment has made is that looking at country like Tanzania 80% of the population makes less than $2 a day.
It cost at manufacturing point $6 to produce these. It cost the establishment another $6 to distribute it. So the market price in a free market would be about $12 per net.
Most people can't afford that, so let's give it away free.
and we said, well, there's another option.
Let's use the market as the best listening device we have. And understand it what price people would pay for this. So they get the dignity of choice
we can start building local distribution and actually it can cost the public sector much less. And so we came in with the second round of patient capital to a loan as well as a grant so that a does that could play with pricing and listen to the marketplace and found a number of things
one that people will play different prices, but the overwhelming number of people will come forth at $1 per net and make a decision to buy it.
And when you listen to them, they'll also have a lot to say about what they like and what they don't like.
and that some of the channels we thought would work didn't work.
But because of this experimentation and iteration that was allowed, because of the patient's capital, we've now found that it costs about $1 in the private sector to distribute an $1 to buy the net.
So then, from a policy perspective when you start with the market, we have a choice.
We can continue going along at $12 a net and the customer pay zero. Or we could at least experiment with some of it to charge $1 a net, cost the public sector and other $6 a net. Give the people the dignity of choice and have a distribution system that might over time start sustaining itself.
We've got to start having conversations like this, and I don't think there's any better way to start than using the market, but also to bring other people to the table around it.
Whenever I go to visit A to Z, I think of my grandmother Stella.
She was very much like those women sitting behind the sewing machines.
She grew up in a farm in Austria. Very poor. Didn't have very much education.
She moved to the United States for Schmitt, my grandfather, who was a cement hauler. And they had nine children.
three of them died as babies.
My grandmother had to burp your locuses and she worked in a sewing machine shop making shirts for about 10 cents an hour.
She, like some of the women, I see a day to Zed, worked hard every day, understood what suffering was, had a deep faith in God, loved her children, and would never have accepted a handout.
But because she had the opportunity of the marketplace, and she lived in a society that provided her to the safety of having access to affordable health and education, her children and their children were able to live lives of real purpose and follow real dreams.
I look around at my siblings and my cousins and I said there are a lot of us. And I see teachers and musicians. Head fund managers, designers.
One sister who makes other people's wishes come true.
And my wish, when I see those women, I meet those farmers, and I think about all the people across this continent who are working hard every day, is that they have that sense of opportunity and possibility, and that they also can believe and get access to services so that their children too can live those lives of great purpose.
It shouldn't be that difficult.
But what it takes is a commitment from all of us to essentially refuse, try to sum up, get out of our ideological boxes.
It takes investing in those entrepreneurs that are committed to service as well as to success.
It takes opening your arms both wide and expecting very little love and return, but demanding accountability and bringing accountability to the table as well.
And most of all, most of all, it requires that all of us have the courage and the patience, whether we are rich or poor, African or non-Paper, can local or diaspora left or right to really start listening to each other.
Thank you.
Like, many of you here, I am trying to contribute to what's around the science and Africa.
The question of transformation in Africa really is a question of leadership.
Africa can only be transformed by enlightened leaders.
And it is my contention that the manner in which we educate our leaders is fundamental to progress on this continent.
I want to tell you some stories that explain my view.
We all heard about the importance of stories yesterday.
And the American friend of mine, this year, volunteers in Erson Ghana, and in the period of three months, she came to a conclusion about the state of leadership in Africa that had taken me over a decade to reach.
twice, she was involved in surgeries where they lost power at the hospital.
Emergency generators did not start.
There was not a flashlight, not a lantern, not a candle, pitch black.
Patience cut open twice.
The first time it was a sea section.
Thankfully, baby was out. Mother and child survived.
The second time was a procedure that involved local anesthesia.
and aesthetic wear so.
patient feels pain.
He's crying.
screaming.
is pretty.
Pitch.
Not a candle, not a flashlight.
and that hospital could have afforded for my slides.
It could have afforded to purchase these things, but they didn't.
It happened twice.
Another time she watched in horror as nurses watched a patient die because it refused to give her oxygen that they had.
And so three months later, just before to return to the United States, nurses in that crowd go and strike.
and her recommendation is take this up to need to fire everyone, start all over again.
Saddle up again.
Now, what does this have to do with leadership?
You see the faults of the ministry of health, the hospital administrators, the doctors, the nurses, they are among just 5% of their peers who get an education after secondary school.
they are the elite.
They are leaders.
their decisions, their actions matter.
and when they fail, a nation literally suffers.
So when I speak of leadership, I'm not talking about just political leaders.
We've heard a lot about that.
I'm talking about the elite.
Those who've been trained whose job it is to be the guardians of their society.
The lawyers, the judges, the police men, the doctors, the engineers, the civil servants. Those are the leaders.
and we need to train them right.
Now my first pointed and memorable experience with leadership in Ghana occurred when I was 16 years old.
We had just had a military coup and soldiers were pervasive in our society.
There were pervasive presence.
And one day I go to the airport to meet my father, and as I walk up this grassy slope from the car park to the terminal building, I'm stopped by two soldiers wielding AK-47 assault weapons.
And they ask me to join a crowd of people that were running up and down the same back mid.
Why?
because the path I had taken was considered out of bounds.
no signs of this effect.
Now I was 16.
I was very worried about what my peers at school might think if they saw me running up and down this hill.
I was especially concerned of what the girls, girls, may think.
And so I started to argue with these men.
little reckless now 16.
I got lucky.
Agana, I always pilot, false into the same predicament.
Because of his uniform, they speak to him differently. They explain to him that they're just following orders.
So he takes her radio, talks to their boss, and gets us all released.
What lessons would you take from an experience like this?
several for me.
leadership matters.
those men are following the orders of a superior officer.
I learned something about courage.
It was important not to look at those guns.
And I also learned that it can be helpful to think about girls.
So a few years after this event, I leave Ghana on a scholarship to go to Swarthmore College for my education.
It was a breath of fresh air.
You know, the faculty there didn't want us to memorize information and repeat back to them as I was used to back in Ghana.
They want to think critically.
They wanted us to be analytical.
they wanted us to be concerned about social issues.
In my economics classes, I got high marks on my understanding of basic economics.
But I learned something more profound than that, which is that the leaders, the managers of Ghana's economy, were making breathtakingly bat decisions that had brought our economy to the brink of collapse.
And so here was this lesson again, leadership matters.
It matters a great deal.
But I didn't really fully understand what had happened to me.
I hadn't been clean, but I didn't fully realize it until I went out into the workplace and I went to work at Microsoft Corporation.
And I was part of this team, this thinking, learning team. Whose job it was to design an implement new software, the creative value in the world?
And it was brilliant to be part of this team.
was brilliant.
And I realized just what had happened to me at SWATWAT, this transformation, the ability to confront problems, complex problems, and to design solutions for those problems.
The ability to create is the most empowering thing that can happen to an individual.
And I was part of that.
Now, while I was at Microsoft, the annual revenues of that company grew larger than the GDP of the Republic of Ghana.
And by the way, it's continued to.
the gap is widened since I left.
Now, I've already spoken about one of the reasons why this is occurred.
I mean, there's a people there who are so hard working, persistent, creative, empowered.
But there are also some external factors, free markets, the rule of law, infrastructure.
These things were provided by institutions run by the people that I call leaders.
and those leaders did not emerge spontaneously.
somebody trained them to do the work that they do.
Now while that was at Microsoft, this funny thing happened.
I became a parent.
And for the first time Africa mattered more to me than ever before.
because I realized that the state of the African continent would matter to my children and their children.
that the state of the world, the state of the world, depends on what's happening to Africa, as far as my kids would be concerned.
And at this time, when I was going through what I called my pre-midlife crisis, Africa was a mess.
Somalia had disintegrated into Anarchy.
Rwanda was in the throes of this genocidal war.
And it seemed to me that that was a wrong direction and I needed to be back helping
I couldn't just stay in Seattle and raise my kids in the upper middle class neighborhood and feel good about it.
This was not the world that I'd want my children to grow up in.
So I decided to get engaged and the first thing that I did was to come back to Ghana and talk with a lot of people and really try to understand what the real issues were.
and three things kept coming up. For every problem, corruption, weak institutions, and the people who run them, the leaders.
Now, I was a little scared because when you see those three problems, they seem really hard to deal with.
And they might say, look, don't even try. But for me, I asked the question, well, where are these leaders coming from?
What is it about Ghana that produces leaders that are unethical or unable to solve problems? So I went to look at what was happening in our educational system.
same learning by road from primary school through graduate school.
very little emphasis on ethics and the average, you know, the typical graduate from a university in Ghana has a strongest sense of entitlement than the sense of responsibility.
This is wrong.
So I decided to engage this particular problem.
because it seems to me that every society must be very intentional about how it trains its leaders.
And Ghana was not paying enough attention.
And this is true across the Saharan Africa actually.
So this is what I'm doing.
I'm trying to bring the experience that I had at Swarthmore, to Africa.
I wish those a liberal arts college in every African country.
I think it would make a huge difference.
And what a Sheshi university is trying to do is to train a new generation of ethical entrepreneurial leaders.
We're trying to train leaders of exceptional integrity, who have the ability to confront the complex problems to ask the right questions and come up with workable solutions.
I'll admit that there are times when it seems like mission impossible. But we must believe that these kids are smart.
that if we involve them in their education, if we have them discuss the real issues that they confront that are whole society confronts, and if we give them skills that enable them to engage the real world that magic will happen.
Now, a month into this project would just start at classes.
and a month into it, I come to the office and I have this email from one of our students.
And it said very simply, I am thinking now, and he signs off, thank you. It's such a simple statement.
But I was moved almost to tears because I understood what was happening to this young man.
And it is an awesome thing to be a part of empowering someone in this way.
I'm thinking now.
This year we challenged our students to craft an on-a-code for themselves.
It's a very vibrant debate going on on campus now of all whether they should have an honor code and if so, what it should look like.
One of the students asked the question that just warned my heart.
can we create a perfect society?
Her understanding that a student crafted on a code constitutes a reach towards perfection is incredible.
Now we cannot achieve perfection, but if we reach for it, then we can achieve excellence.
I don't know ultimately what they will do.
I don't know what they will decide to have this on a code.
But the conversation that they're having now about what their good society should look like, what their excellent society should look like is a really good thing.
May I have a time?
Okay.
Now, I just want to leave that slide up because it's important that we think about it.
I'm very excited by the fact that every student at a Sheshi University does community service before they graduate.
that for many of them, it has been a life-altering experience.
These young future leaders are beginning to understand the real business of leadership, the real privilege of leadership, which is, after all, to serve humanity.
I am even more thrilled by the fact that last year our student body elected a woman to be the head of student government.
It's the first time in the history of Ghana that a woman has been elected, head of student government at any university.
It says a lot about her.
It says a lot about the culture that's forming on campus.
It says a lot about her peers who elected her.
She won with 75% of the vote.
and it gives me a lot of hope.
It turns out that corporate West Africa also appreciates what's happening with our students.
We've graduated two classes students today.
and every single one of them has been placed.
and we're getting great reports back from corporate Ghana, from corporate West Africa. And the things that they're most impressed about is work ethic.
You know, that passion for what they're doing.
the persistence, their ability to deal with ambiguity, their ability to tackle problems they haven't seen before.
This is good because over the past five years there have been times when I felt this is mission impossible and it's just wonderful to see so these glimmers of the promise of what can happen if we train our kids right.
I think the current and future leaders of Africa have an incredible opportunity to drive a major innocence on the continent.
It's an incredible opportunity.
They aren't very many more opportunities like this in the world.
I believe that Africa has reached an inflection point with the march of democracy and free markets across the continent.
We have reached a moment from which can emerge a great society within one generation.
it will depend on inspired leadership.
And it is my contention with the manner in which we train our leaders will make all the difference.
Thank you. God.
Thank you.
See you.
you
So we've got a picture I think.
Where is this?
Вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-вес-
Je vais vous dire.
我看誰
Ini mana itu semua?
MBC 뉴스 김영영입니다.
Yeah, my love.
Okay.
now you're 19 now.
Yeah.
I'm meant to need it, right?
Five years ago you had an idea.
What was that?
I want to mede our
We're here.
Yeah.
o'r ffylating.
Yeah.
So what did you do?
How did you realize that?
I'm going to fly a fly. And I read a book titled using energy and I get information about windmill.
And I try and I am maybe.
Ano!
I just, what happened?
Bu da bir şeyin bir şeyin.
The book had three years at four.
Yeah.
and you made it out of what?
I made four plates just because I want to increase power.
Okay.
Yeah.
you tested three and found that four worked better.
Yeah.
I'm not just
And what did you make the windmill out of?
what did materials did you use?
I use a basket of flam and a plastic pipe. We have a picture of that.
next slide.
Yeah.
We
And so, and that when they're what it worked.
When the wind blows, it protects and generates
How much electricity?
What's up with what's
And so that lit a light for the house.
time and he lights.
for BAPT and 2 Radio.
Wow.
Yeah.
This is my parents, holding their radio.
So what do they make of it? You were 14, 15 at the time, what do they make of this?
They're impressed.
Yeah.
And so what, what, what's your, what are you gonna do with this?
What do you, I mean, do you want to build another one?
I want to build another one to pump water and increase irrigation for crops.
So this one would have to be bigger.
Yeah.
HUBBIC.
I think we will produce more than 20 devots.
Mae'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
Yeah.
Wow.
And so you're talking to people here at TED to get people who might be able to help in some way to realize the stream.
Ja, ich kann helfen mir. Ich bin mein Video sehr.
And as you think of your life going forward, you're 19 now, do you continue with this stream of working in energy?
Yeah.
I'm still thinking to work on anything.
Wow.
William, it's a real honor to have you at the tech conference.
Thank you so much for coming.
you
Thank you very much Chris.
Everybody who came up here said the West scared.
I don't know if I'm scared, but this is my first time of addressing an audience like this.
So I don't have any smart technology, but you to look at.
There are no slides, so you'll just have to be content with me.
What I want to do this morning is share with you a couple of stories and talk about a different Africa.
Already this morning there were some illusions to the Africa that you hear about all the time. The Africa of HIV-H, the Africa of malaria, the Africa of poverty, the Africa of conflict and the Africa of disasters.
Well, it is true that those things are going on. There's an Africa that you don't hear about very much.
and sometimes I'm puzzled and I asked myself why.
This is the Africa that is changing that Chris alluded to.
This is the Africavo opportunity.
This is the Africa where people want to take charge of their own futures and their own destiny.
And this is the Africa where people are looking for partnerships to do this.
That's what I want to talk about today.
And I want to start by telling you a story about that change in Africa.
On 15 September 2005, Mr. Deppria La Messierre, a governor of one of the oil-risk rich states of Nigeria, was arrested by the London Metropolitan Police, an evisit to London.
He was arrested because there were transfers of $8 million that went into some domenta accounts that belonged to him and his family.
This arrest occurred because there was cooperation between the London Metropolitan Police and the economic and financial crimes commission of Nigeria led by one of our most able and courageous people, Mr. Nuhuribad.
Rind in London.
Due to some slip-offs, he managed to escape dressed as a woman and ran from London back to Nigeria, where, according to a constitution, those in office, as governor's president, as many countries have immunity and cannot be prosecuted.
But what happened? People were so outraged by this behavior that it was possible for his state legislature to impeach him and get him out of office.
hari ini akan mencari kecil untuk mencari.
Ini adalah perlukan orang yang beri orang yang beri orang yang beri orang. Saya tahu langkah beri orang yang beri orang yang beri orang yang beri orang.
This is a story about the fact that people want their resources managed properly for their good and not taken out to places where they'll benefit just a few of their needs.
And therefore, when you hear about the corrupt Africa, corruption all the time, I want you to know that the people and the governments are trying hard to fight this in some of the countries. And that some successes I emerging.
Does it mean the problem is over
The answer is no.
That's still a long way to go, but that is a will there.
and that successes are being chocked up on this very important fight.
So when you hear about corruption, don't just feel that nothing is being done about this, that you can't operate in any African country because of the overwhelming corruption.
That is not the case.
There's a will to fight and in many countries that fight is ongoing and is being won.
In others, like mine, where there has been a long history of dictatorship in Nigeria, the fight is ongoing and we have a long way to go.
But the truth of the matter is that this is going on.
The results are shown in independent monitoring by the well-bank and other organizations show that in many instances the trend is downwards in terms of corruption and governance is improving.
study by the Economic Commission for Africa showed a clad trend upwards in governance in 28 African countries.
And let me say just one more thing before I leave this area of governance.
That is that people talk about corruption, corruption.
the time when they talk about it, you immediately think about Africa.
And that's the image African countries.
But let me say this, if a lance was able to export $8 million into an accounting London. If the other people who are taking money estimated at $20 to $40 billion now of developing countries' monies, sitting abroad in the developed countries, if they able to do this, what is that?
Is that not corruption?
In this country, if you receive stolen goods, are you now prosecuted?
So when we talk about this kind of corruption, let us also think about what is happening on the other side of the globe where the money is going and what can be done to stop it.
and working an initiative now, along with a well bank on asset recovery, trying to do what we can to get the money that have been taken up broad, developing countries' money to get that sent back.
因为如果我们可以来到20 billion dollars,我们要去到国内,我们会认为我们的国内,我们会认为我们的国内,我们会认为我们的国内,我们会认为我们的国内,我们会认为我们的国内,我们会认为我们的国内,我们会认为我们的国内,我们会认为我们的国内,我们会认为我们的国内,我们会认为我们的国内,我们会认为我们的国内,我们会认为我们的国内,我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会认为我们会
Africans after their tired. We are tired of being the subject of everybody's charity and
We are grateful. But we know that we can take charge of our own destiny as if we have the will to reform.
dan apa yang berlaku dengan banyak kand-kand, kand-kand, sekarang, adalah diperlukan yang tak boleh buat.
We have to do it.
We can invite partners who can support us but we have to start.
We have to reform my economies, change our leadership, become more democratic, be more open. To change and to information.
And this is what we started to do in one of the largest countries on the continent, Nigeria.
In fact, if you're not in Nigeria, you're not in Africa.
I want to tell you the
One in four subsaharan Africans is Nigerian and it has 140 million dynamic people, chaotic people, but very interesting people.
You'll never be bored.
What we started to do was to realize that we had to take charge and reform ourselves.
And with the support of a leader who was willing at the time to do the reforms, we put forward a comprehensive reform program which we developed ourselves.
Not international money,
not the World Bank where work for 21 years and rules to be a vice president.
No one can do it for you.
you have to do it for yourself.
We put together a program that would get the state out of businesses. It had nothing. It had no business being in.
The state should not be in the business of producing goods and services because it's inefficient and incompetent.
So we decided to privatize many of our enterprises.
Can you believe that prior to this reform which started at the end of 2003 when I left Washington to go and take up the post of finance minister? We had a telecommunications company that was only able to develop 4,500 land lines in its entire 30 year history.
Having a telephone in my country was a huge luxury.
You couldn't get it.
You have to bribe.
You have to do everything to get up.
When President Obama's angel supported and launched the liberalization of the telecommunications sector, we went from 4,500 line lines to 32 million GSM lines on count.
Nigeria's telecoms market is the second fastest growing in the world after China.
We are getting investments of about $1 billion a year in telecom.
And nobody knows, except a few smart people.
The smartest one first to come in was the anti-income near South Africa.
And in the three years that I was finance minister, they made an average of $360 million profit per year.
360 million in a market in a country that is a poor country with an average by capital income just under $500.
So the market is there.
when they kept this under wraps but soon others got to know.
Nigerians themselves began to develop some wireless telecommunications companies and three or four others have come in.
But there's a huge market out there and people don't know about it. Or they don't want to know.
So privatization is one of the things we've done.
The other thing we've also done is to manage our finances better.
因为如果这里会不会再度,如果您不是要求,您会不会再度。
And Nigeria with the oil sector had the reputation of being corrupt and not managing its own public finances.
So what did we try to do?
We introduce the fiscal rule that the link tab project from the oil price.
before we used to just budget on whatever oil would bring in. Because oil is the biggest most revenue and insect in the economy, 70% of our revenues come from oil.
Ia yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nabita, yu nab
We didn't know we could pull it off, it was very controversial.
But what it immediately did was that the volatility that had been present in terms of our economic development, where oil prices were high would grow very fast.
when they crash, we crash.
and we could hardly even pay anything any salary is in the economy.
That's smoothened out.
were able to save just before I left $27 billion.
whereas in this went to our reserves. When I arrived in 2003, we had seven billion in reserves.
By the time I left, we had gone up to almost 30 billion.
That's we speak now. We have about 40 billion in reserves. Due to proper management of our finances.
And that shows up a economy makes it stable.
I exchange rate that used to fluctuate all the time is now fairly stable and being managed so that business people have a predictability of prices in the economy.
We brought inflation down from 28% to about 11%.
And we had GDP grow from an average of 2.3% the previous decade to about 6.5%.
So all the changes and reforms were able to make have shown up in results that are measurable in the economy.
And what is more important because we want to get away from oil and diversify and there are so many opportunities in this one, the country as many countries in Africa. What was remarkable is that much of this growth came not from the oil sector, a loan by non-oil.
agricultural grew at better than 8%.
I've totally concept our group, housing and construction, and I could go on and on.
這就是最初的確,我們來看的是最初的確,我們來看的是最初的確,我們來看的是最初的確,我們來看的是最初的確
We have opportunities in agriculture, like I said.
We have opportunities in solid minerals.
We have a lot of minerals that no one has even invested in the next blood.
and we realize that without the proper legislation to make that possible, that wouldn't happen.
So we've now got a mining code that is comparable with some of the best in the world.
We have opportunities in housing and
There was nothing in the country of 140 million people. No shopping malls. As you know them here.
This was an investment opportunity for someone that excited the imagination of people.
And now we have a situation in which the businesses in this small are doing four times the turnover that they had projected.
So huge things in construction, real estate, mortgage, market,
financial services. We had eight to nine banks.
too many, not doing the real business.
We consolidated them from 89 to 25 banks by requiring that they increase the capital. Share capital.
And it went from about 25 million to $115 million.
The bank's response are now consolidated and that strengthening of the banking system has attracted a lot of investment from outside.
The barclays bank of the UK's would bring in in 500 million.
Stand that charter this ringing has brought in 140 million.
and I can go on.
dollars on a non into the system.
We are doing the same within Sharan sectors
financial services a great deal of opportunity.
In tourism, many African countries, a great opportunity.
And that's what many people know East Africa for. The wildlife, the elephant and so on.
But managing the tourism market in a way that can really benefit the people is very important.
So what am I trying to say?
I'm trying to tell you that there's a new wave on the continent.
a new wave of openness and democratization in which since 2000, modern 2,3rds of African countries have had multi-party democratic elections.
Not all of them have been perfect or will be, but the trend is very clear.
I'm trying to tell you that since the past three years, the average rate of growth on the continent has moved from about 2.5% to about 5% per annum.
This is better than the performance of many OECD countries.
So it's clear that things are changing.
Conflicts are down on the continent. From about 12 conflicts a decade ago, we are down to 3, or 4 conflicts one of the most terrible of course of which is duffer.
And you know you have the neighborhood effect where if something is going on in one part of the continent it looks like the entire continent is affected.
But you should know that this continent is not a continent of many countries. Not one country.
如果我们将来对方的方法,我们将来对方的方法是在提供的国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,国内,
And I want to just make one point about this investment.
The best way to help Africans today is to help them to stand on their own feet.
And the best way to do that is by helping create jobs.
There is no issue with fighting malaria and putting money in that and saving children's lives.
That's not what I'm saying.
That is fine.
But imagine the impact on their family. If the parents can be employed, I make sure that their children go to school, that they can buy the drugs to fight the disease themselves.
If we can invest in places where you yourself make money, whilst creating jobs and may help people stand on their own feet, isn't that a wonderful opportunity?
Isn't that the way to go?
And I want to say that some of the best people to invest in on the continent are the women.
I'm sorry that I didn't say anything on time.
otherwise I would have liked you to have seen this
This is an Africa open for business. This is a video that has actually won an award as the best documentary of the year.
I understand that the woman who made it is going to be in Tanzania where they are having the session in June.
But it shows you Africans and particularly African women who against all odds have developed businesses, some of them world class.
One of the women in this video, Nika Ogunlesley, making children's clothes, which is started as a hobby. And grew into a business.
mixing African materials such as we have with materials from elsewhere.
social make a little pair of dongaris with cordurized with African material mixed in.
very creative designs has reached a stage where she even had an order from Walmart.
for 10,000 pieces.
So that shows you that we have people who are capable of doing
The women are diligent.
They are focused, they work hard.
I could go and give in examples, Beatrice Gakuva of Rwanda, who opened up a flower business and is now exporting to the Dutch auction in Amsterdam. Each morning, and is employing 200 other women and men to work with her.
However, many of these are stopped for capital to expand. Because nobody believes outside of our countries that we can do what is necessary.
Nobody thinks in terms of a market.
Nobody thinks there's a oportunidade.
But I'm standing here saying that those who missed a boat now will miss it forever.
So if you want to be an Africa, think about investing.
Think about the Beatrice's. Think about the Nickes of this world who are doing incredible things that are bringing them into the global economy. Whilst at the same time making sure that their fellow men and women are employed and that the children in those households get educated because their parents are earning adequate income.
Jadi saya akan buat awak untuk mencari lelaki yang berlaku.
When you go to Tanzania, listen carefully because I'm sure you will hear of the various openings that there will be for you to get involved in something that will do good for the continent, for the people and for yourselves.
Thank you very much.
What I'm going to show you first as quickly as I can is some foundational work, some new technology that we brought to Microsoft as part of an acquisition almost exactly a year ago.
This is C-Dragon, and it's an environment in which you can either locally or remotely interact with vast amounts of visual data.
We're looking at many, many gigabytes of digital photos here and kind of seamlessly and continuously zooming and padding through the thing rearranging it at any way we want.
And it doesn't matter how much information we're looking at, how big these collections are, or how big the images are.
most of them are ordinary digital camera photos, but this one, for example, is a scan from the Library of Congress, and it's in the 300 megapixel range.
It doesn't make me different because the only thing that ought to limit the performance of a system like this one is the number of pixels on your screen at any given moment.
It's also a very flexible architecture.
This is an entire book, so this is an example of non-image data.
This is a bleak house by Dickens.
Every column is a chapter.
to prove to you that it's really text and not an image we can do something like so. To really show that this is a real representation of the text, it's not a picture.
Maybe this is a kind of artificial way to read an e-book.
I wouldn't recommend it.
This is a more realistic case. This is an issue of the Guardian.
every large image is the beginning of a section.
And this really gives you the joy and the good experience of reading the real paper version of a magazine or a newspaper, which is an inherently multi-scale kind of medium.
We've also done a little something with the corner of this particular issue of the garden
we've made up a fake ad that's very high resolution, much higher than you're able to get in an ordinary ad and we've embedded extra content
Everybody say the features of this car you can see it here.
or other models or even technical specifications.
And this really, this really gets at some of these ideas about really doing away with those limits on screen real estate.
We hope that this means no more pop-ups. No, they're kind of rubbish like that. She'd be necessary.
Of course, mapping is one of those really obvious applications for technology like this.
And this one I really want to spend any time on except to say that we have things to contribute to this field as well.
But there's all the roads in the US, superimposed on top of a NASA geospatial image.
So let's pull up now something else.
This is actually live on the web now you can go check it out.
This is a product called Photosynth, which really marries two different technologies.
One of them is Seed Dragon and the other is some very beautiful computer vision research done by Noah Snaveli, a graduate student at the University of Washington, co-advised by Steve Sites at U-Dod and Rick Soliski at Microsoft Research.
a very nice collaboration.
And so this is live on the web.
It's powered by Seed Dragon.
And you can see that we can do these sorts of views, where we can dive through images and have this kind of multi-resolution experience.
But the spatial arrangement of the images here is actually meaningful.
The computer vision algorithms have registered these images together so they correspond to the real space in which these shots all taken near grassy lakes and the Canadian Rockies all these shots were taken.
So you'll see elements here of stabilized slideshow or panoramic imaging. And these things have all been related really in space showing.
I'm not sure if I have time to show you any other environment.
some that are much more spatial.
I'd like to jump straight to one of Noah's original data sets. This is from an early prototype of a photosynth that we first got working in this summer to show you what I think is really the punchline behind this technology, the photosynth technology. It's not necessarily so apparent from looking at the environments that we've put up on the website.
we had to worry about the lawyers and so on.
This is a reconstruction of metodam cathedral that was done entirely computationally from images from Flicker.
You just type no-terdam into flicker and you get some pictures of guys in T-shirts and of the campus and so on.
And each of these orange cones represents an image that was discovered to belong to this model.
And so these are all flicker images and they've all been related spatially in this way.
I can just navigate in this very simple way.
very gratifying. I've just got a perception
I just can see this is a very, this is lots of different types of cameras. It's everything from cell phone cameras to professional SLRs, quite a large number of different registered together into this environment.
And if I can find some of the sort of weird ones, so many of them are included by faces and so on.
somewhere in here, there's actually a series of photographs. Here we go.
This is actually a poster of Notre Dame that registered correctly.
We can dive in from the poster to a physical view of this environment.
What the point here really is is that we can do things with the social environment.
This is now taking data from everybody, from the entire collective memory of visually of what the Earth looks like and link all of that together.
those photos become linked together and they make something emergent, this greater than the sum of the parts.
to have a model that emerges of entire earth.
think of this as the long tail to Stephen Lawler's virtual earth work.
And this is something that grows in complexity as people use it and whose benefits become greater to the user as they use it.
their own photos are getting tagged with metadata that somebody all centered.
If somebody bothered to tag all of these saints and say who they all are, then my photo of Notre Dame Cathedral suddenly gets enriched with all that data. And I can use it as an entry point to dive into that space, since that metaverse, using everybody else's photos, and do a kind of cross-model and cross-user social experience that way.
And of course, a byproduct of all of that is immensely rich virtual models of every interesting part of the Earth collected not just from overhead flights and from satellite images and so on, but from the collective memory.
Thank you.
What your software is going to allow is that at some point really within the next few years all the pictures that are shared by anyone across the world are going to basically link together.
Yes.
What this is really doing is discovering it's creating hyperlinks if you will, between
doing that based on the content inside the images.
really exciting when you think about the richness of the semantic information that a lot of those images have.
like when you do a web search for images, you type in phrases and the text on the web page is carrying a lot of information about what that picture is
What if that picture links to all of your pictures?
than the amount of semantic interconnection and the amount of richness that comes out of that is really huge.
the classic network effect.
Place that is truly incredible.
Congratulations.
Basically there's a major demographic event going on.
And maybe the passing the 50% urban point is a economic tipping point.
So the world now is a map of connectivity.
used to be that Paris and London and New York were the largest cities.
Well, we have now as the end of the rise of the West.
That's over.
The aggregate numbers are overwhelming.
So what's really going on?
villages of the world are emptying out.
Questions why?
Here's the unromantic truth. And the city air makes you free. They said in Renaissance Germany.
Some people go to places like Shanghai and most go to the squatter cities. Where aesthetics rule.
And these are not really people oppressed by poverty.
people getting out of poverty as fast as they can.
They're the dominant builders and the largest-standard dominant designers.
They have home-ruined infrastructure in vibrant or mid-life.
one sixth is the GDP in India is coming out of Mumbai.
constantly upgrading in a few cases the government helps.
Education is the main event that can happen in cities.
What's going on in the street and Mumbai?
Al Gore knows.
It's basically everything.
There's no unemployment in squatter cities.
every one of
One sixth of humanity is there.
It's soon going to be more than that.
So here's the first punch line. Cities of defuse the population bomb.
And here's the second punch line.
That's the news from downtown.
here it is in perspective.
It's just another day on earth. It's just stars shining down on earth's life for a million years.
Now we're shining right back up.
you
One of the intense pleasures of travel in one of the delights of ethnographic research is the opportunity to live amongst those who have not forgotten the old ways, who still feel their past and the wind, touch it and stones polished by rain, taste it in the bitter leaves of plants.
Just to know that Jaguar-isham and still journey beyond the Milky Way or the myths of the Inuit elders still resonate with meaning or that in the Himalayah, the Buddhist still pursue the breath of the Dharma, is to really remember the central revelation of anthropology and that is the idea that the world in which we live in does not exist in some absolute sense, but it's just one model of reality. The consequence of one particular set of adaptive choices that our lineage made, albeit successfully, many generations ago.
And of course, we all share the same adaptive imperative.
for a long time.
We all bring our children, the world.
We go through initiation rights.
We have to deal with the next inexable separation of death. So it shouldn't surprise us that we all sing. We all dance. We all have art.
But what's interesting is the unique cadence of the song, the rhythm of the dance in every culture.
And whether it is the Panan and the Forest of Borneo or the Vudu Aquilites in Haiti or the warriors in the Kaisu Desert of Northern Kenya, the Kurandero and the Mountains of the Andes or a Kattavansati in the middle of the Sahara, this is incidentally the fellow that I traveled into the desert with a month ago, or indeed a Yakurder in the slopes of Chomalunma, ever as the goddess mother of the world,
All of these peoples teach us that there are other ways of being, other ways of thinking, other ways of wanting yourself and the Earth.
And this is an idea that if you think about it, it can only fill you with hope.
Now, together the myriad cultures of the world make up a web of spiritual life and cultural life that envelops a planet. And it's as important to the well-being of the planet as indeed as a biological web of life that you know as a biosphere.
And you might think of this cultural web of life as being an ethno sphere. And you might define the ethno sphere as being the sum total of all thoughts and dreams, myths, ideas, inspirations, intuitions, brought into being by the human imagination since a dawn of consciousness.
The ethno sphere is humanity's great legacy.
It's a symbol of all that we are and all that we can be as an astonishingly inquisitive species.
And just as the biosphere is being severely eroded, so too is the ethno sphere, and if anything at a far greater rate.
No biologists, for example, would they suggest that 50% of all species are more abundant around the brink of extinction because it's simply not true. And yet that, the most apocalyptic scenario in the realm of biological diversity, scarcely approaches what we know to be the most optimistic scenario in the realm of cultural diversity.
in the great indicator of that, of course, is language loss.
When each of you in this room were born, there were 6,000 languages spoken on the planet.
Now, a language is not just a body of vocabulary or a set of grammatical rules.
A language is a flash of the human spirit.
It's a vehicle through which the soul of each particular culture comes in the material world.
Every language is an old growth force to the mind, a watershed, a thought, and ecosystem of spiritual possibilities.
And other 6,000 languages as we see here today in Monterey, fully half or no longer been whispered into the ears of children.
They're no longer being taught to babies, which means effectively unless something changes, they're already dead.
What could be more lonely than to be enveloped in silence to be the last of your people to speak your language? Have no way to pass on the wisdom of the ancestors or anticipate the promise of the children.
And yet that dreadful fate is indeed the plight of somebody somewhere on earth roughly every two weeks because every two weeks some elder dies and carries with them into the grave the last syllables of an ancient tongue.
And I know there's some of you say, well, wouldn't it be better, wouldn't there be a better place if we all just spoke one language? And I say, great, let's make that language, your boss.
Let's make a Cantonese.
Let's make it kogi and you'll suddenly discover what it would be like to be unable to speak your own language.
And so what I'd like to do with you today is, and sort of take you on a journey through the ethnosphere, a brief journey through the ethnosphere, to try to begin to give you a sense of what in fact is being lost.
Now, there are many of us who sort of forget that when I say different ways of being, I really do mean different ways of being.
Take for example this child of the Bada Sanna, the Northwest Amazon, a people of the Anaconda who believe that mythologically they came up the milk rivers in the east and the belly of sacred snakes.
Now this is a people who cognitively do not distinguish a color blue from the color green because the canopy of the heavens is equated to the canopy of the forest upon which the people depend.
They have a curious language and marriage rule which is called linguistic exogony. You must marry someone who speaks a different language.
and this is all rooted in the theological past. Yet the curious thing is in these long houses where their six or seven languages spoken because in the term marriage, you never hear anyone practicing a language.
They simply listen and then begin to speak.
We're one of the most fascinating tribes I've ever lived with, the Warani of Northeastern Ecuador. And astonishing people first contacted peacefully
in 1958 and 1957, five missionaries attempted contact made a critical mistake.
They dropped from the air eight by 10 glossy photographs of themselves, and what we would say to be friendly gestures for getting at these people the rain force had never seen anything too dimensional in their lives.
They picked up these photographs from the forest floor, tried to look behind the face to find the form of the figure found nothing and concluded that these were calling cards from the devil and so they spearred the five missionaries to death.
but the warante didn't just spear outsideers.
they spear each other.
54% of their mortality was due to them sparing each other.
We trace genealogy's back-age generations and we found two instances of natural death and when we pressured the people a little bit about it, they admitted that one of the fellows had gotten so old that he died getting old so we speared him anyway.
But at the same time, they had a perspicacious knowledge of the force that was astonishing.
their hunters could smell animal urine at 40 paces until you have species left at behind.
In the early 80s, I had a really astonishing assignment when I was asked by my professor at Harvard, if I was interested in going down to Haiti, infiltrating the secret societies, which were the foundation of the values strength and the tomte macuit, and securing the poison used to make zombies.
In order to make sense that a sensation, of course, I had to understand something about this remarkable faith of Udon.
and Voodoo is not a black magic cult.
the contrary it's a complex metaphysical
It's interesting.
And if I ask you the name, the great religions of the world, what would you say?
Christianity is lamb Buddhism, Judaism whatever.
There's always one continent left out is the assumption being that Sub-Saharan Africa had no religious beliefs.
Of course, they did, and Voodoo simply the distillation of these very profound religious ideas that came over during the tragedy, diaspora of the slavery era.
But what makes Voodoo so interesting is that it's this living relationship between living and the dead.
the living of birth is spirits.
The spirits can be invoked from beneath the great water, responding to the rhythm of the dance, to momentarily displace the soul of the living, so that for that brief shining moment, the act light becomes the God.
That's why the voodooists like to say that you wake people good at church and speak about God.
We dance in the temple and become God. And because you are possessed, you are taken by the Spirit. How can you be harmed?
You see these astonishing demonstrations, food, to act like, in a state of trans, handling burning embers with impunity. A rather astonishing example of the ability of the mind to affect the body that bears it when catalyzed in a state of extreme
Now of all the peoples that I've ever been with, the most extraordinary, or the Kogi, of the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta in northern Columbia.
The sentence of the ancient Tyrone civilization which once carpeted the Caribbean coasts of Plain and Columbia, in the wake of the conquest, these people retreat into an isolated volcanic messif that soars above the Caribbean coast of Plain.
In a bloodstained continent, these people alone were never conquered by the Spanish.
to this day they remain ruled by a ritual priesthood, but they're training for the priest to his rather extraordinary.
The young oxlites are taken away from their families at the age of 3 and 4. It's a quest for the shadowy world of darkness and stone huts the base of glaciers for 18 years. Two nine-year periods deliberately chosen to mimic the nine months of gestation they spent in their natural mother's womb. Now they are metaphorically in the womb of the great mother.
And for this entire time, they are incultured into the values of their society. The values that maintain the proposition that their prayers and their prayers alone maintain the cosmic, or we might say, the ecological balance.
The end of this amazing initiation one day they're suddenly taken out and for the first time in their lives the age of 18 they see a sunrise.
And in that crystal moment of awareness the first light, as the sun begins to bathe the slopes of this stunningly beautiful landscape, suddenly everything they have learned in the abstract is affirmed in stunning glory.
and the pre-steves back and so you see
really as I've told you.
It is that beautiful.
It is yours to protect. They call themselves the elder brothers and they say we who are the younger brothers are the ones responsible for destroying the world.
Now this level of intuition becomes very important.
Whenever we think of indigenous people in landscape, we either invoke Russo and the old canard, the noble savage, which is an idea of racism and simplicity, or alternatively we invite invoked for row and say these people are closer to the earth than we are.
Well, indigenous people are neither sentimental nor weak and biased style, Jeff.
There's not a lot of room for either in the malaria swamps of the asthma, or in the chilling winds of Tibet. But they have nevertheless through time and ritual forged a traditional mystique of the earth that is based not on the idea of being self-consciously close to it, but on a far-suttler intuition. The idea that the earth itself can only exist because it has breathing the bean by human consciousness.
Now what does that mean?
It means that a young kid from the Andes, whose raised to believe that that mountain is an aposperic that will direct his or her destiny, will be a profoundly different human being and have a different relationship to that resource, or that place than a young kid from Montana raised to believe that a mountain is the pile of rock ready to be
Whether it's a boat of a spirit or a pile of ore is irrelevant.
What's interesting is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and the natural world.
I was raised in the forest, the British Columbia to believe those forest existed to be cut.
That made me a different human being than my friends amongst the Kaguya who believed that those forests were the boat of Huku, and the crooked beak of heaven in the cannibal spirits that dwell in the north end of the world, spirits they would have to engage during their hamaids initiation.
Now if you begin to look at the idea that these cultures could create different realities, you can begin to understand some of their extraordinary discoveries.
Take this plant here.
The photograph I took in the northwest Amazon just last April.
This is Ayahuasca, which many of you have heard about, the most powerful psychoactive preparation of the Shaman's repertoire.
What makes Iowa's fascinating is not the sheer pharmacological potential of this preparation, but the elaboration of it.
It's made really of two different sources. On the one hand, this Woody Leon, which has in it a series of beta carbolines, harming, harmingly, and mildly, hallucinogenic to take the vignalone, it's rather to have blue haze, smoke, drift across your consciousness. But it's mixed with the leaves of a shrub and the coffee family, called psychotry of theardis.
This plant has in it some very powerful trip to means, very close to brain serotonin.
If you've ever seen the Yonomami blowing that snuff up their noses, that that substance they make from a different set of species is also contains five methoxy dimethyl trip
have that powder blown up your nose as rather like being shot out of a rifle barrel line with broke panings and landing on a sea of electricity.
It doesn't create the distortion of reality. It creates the delusion of reality.
In fact, I used to argue with my professor Richard E. M. Schulti, who was a man who sparked the psychedelic era with his discovery of the magic mushrooms and Mexico in the 1930s, I used to argue that you couldn't classify these trippemines as hallucinogenic because by the time you're under the effects, there was no home anymore to experience a hallucinogenic.
But the thing about trip to means is they cannot be taken orally because they're denatured by an enzyme found naturally in the human gut called monoaminox.
They can only be taken orally as taken in conjunction with some other chemical that denature's the MAO.
Now the fascinating things that the beta carbonyms found within that Lyanna are M.O. inhibitors of the precise sort necessary to potentiate the triptmines.
So you asked yourself a question.
how in a flora of 80,000 species of asteroid or plants, do these people find these two morphologically unrelated plants that when combined in this way created a kind of biochemical version of the whole being created in some of the parts.
We use that great euphemism trial in the error which is exposed to be meaningless.
But you ask the Indians and they say the plants talked to us. What does that mean?
This tribe, the Kofan, has 17 varieties of Ayahuasca, all of which they distinguish a great distance in the forest, all of which are referable to our eye as one species.
And then you ask them how they establish your taxonomy and they say, I thought you knew something about plants.
I mean, do you know anything? And I still know. Well, it turns out you take each of the 17 varieties on the night of a full moon and it sings to you in a different key.
Now that's not going to get you a PhD at Harvard, but it's a lot more interesting than counting statements.
Well, the truth is a 20th century, 300 years from now is not going to be remembered for its wars or its technological innovations, but rather the air in which we stood by, and either actively endorsed or passively accepted the massive destruction of both biological and cultural diversity on the planet.
Now the problem isn't change.
All cultures through all time have constant being engaged in the dance with new possibilities of life.
And the problem is not technology itself.
The Sue Indians did not stop being Sue when they gave up the bone arrow any more than American stopping in America when you gave up the horse and buggy.
It's not change or technology that threatens the integrity of the ethno sphere.
It is power, the crude face of domination.
However you look around the world, you discover that these are not cultures destined to fade away. These are dynamic living peoples being driven out of the existence by identifiable forces that are beyond their capacity to adapt to, whether it's the egregious D. Forestation in the homeland of the Panan, a nomadic people from Southeast Asia, from Sarawak, a people who lived free in the forest until a generation ago, and now have all been reduced to servitude and prostitution on the banks of the rivers where you can see the river itself is soiled with the silt that seems to be carrying half a borno way to the so-chianise where the Japanese frayters hang light on the horizon ready to fill their holes with raw logs ripped from the forest. Or in the case of the Anomami, it's a disease entity that have come in in the wake of the discovery of gold.
Or if we go into the mountains of Tibet where I'm doing a lot of research recently, you'll see it's a crude face of political domination.
You know, genocide, the physical extinction of a people is universally condemned, but, if, the destruction of people's way of life is not only not condemned, it's universally, in many quarters, celebrated as part of a development strategy.
and you cannot understand the pain of Tibet until you move through it at the ground level.
I once traveled 6,000 miles from Chendu and Western China over land through Southeastern Tibet to Lasah, where the young colleague, and it was only when I got to Lasah that I understood the face behind these statistics you hear about, 6,000 sacred monuments torn apart to dust and ashes, 1.2 million people killed by the cadre during the Cultural Revolution.
This young man's father had been ascribed for the Potch and Lama.
that meant he was instantly killed at the time of the Chinese invasion.
His uncle fled with his holiness in the diaspora that took the people to Nepal.
His mother was incarcerated for the price of crime of being wealthy.
He was smuggled into the jail at the age of two to hide beneath her skirt tails, because she couldn't bear to be without him.
The sister had done that brave deed was put into education camp.
one day she'd inadvertently stepped on an armband that of Mao and for that transgression she was given seven years of hard labor.
The pain of Tibet can be impossible to bear, but the redemptive spirit of the people is something to behold.
And in the end, it really comes down to a choice. Do we want to live in a monochromatic world of monotony? Or do we want to embrace a polychromatic world of diversity?
Margaret Meade, the great anthropologist, said before she died, that her greatest fear that was, was it as we drift toward this blandly amorphous, generic worldview, not only would we see the entire range of the human imagination, reduced to a more narrow and more narrow modality of thought, but that we would wake from a dream one day having forgotten that there were even other possibilities.
And it's humbling to remember that our species has perhaps been around for 600,000 years.
The Neolithic Revolution, which gave us agriculture at which time we succumbed to the cult of the seed, the poetry of the Shaman was displaced by the prose of the priesthood, recreated hierarchy, specialization surplus, is only 10,000 years ago.
The modern industrial world as we know it is barely 300 years old.
Now that shallow history doesn't suggest to me that we have all the answers for all of the challenges that will confront us in the ensuing millennia.
When these myriad cultures of the world are asked the meaning of being human, they respond with 10,000 different voices.
And it's within that song that we all read the cover, the possibility of being what we are, a fully conscious species, fully aware of ensuring that all peoples in all gardens find a way to flourish.
and there are great moments of optimism.
This is a photograph I took at the northern tip of Bath and Island when I went Norwell hunting with some inuit people. And this man, O'Lia, told me a marvelous story of his grandfather.
The Canadian government has not always been kind of the in you at people and during the 1950s to establish our sovereignty we force them into settlements.
This whole man's grandfather refused to go.
the family fearful for his life, took away all of his weapons, all of his tools.
Now you must understand that the Inuit did not fear the cold they took advantage of it.
the runners of their sleds were originally made of fish wrapped in caribou hide.
So this man's grandfather was not intimidated by the Arctic Knight for the blizzard that was blowing.
It simply slipped outside, pulled down as seals can trousers and defecated into his hand.
And as a thesis began to freeze, he shaped it in the form of a blade.
He put a spray of saliva on the edge of the shit knife and as it finally froze solid, he blitzered a dog with it.
He skinned the dog and improvised a harness, took the ribcage of the dog and improvised a sled, harnessed up in the adjacent dog, and disappeared over the ice flows, shit and ice and belt.
talk about getting by with nothing.
The Canadian government in April of 1999 gave back to total control of the Inuit, an area of land, large and California and Texas put together.
It's our new homeland.
It's called a new
is an independent territory
they control all mineral resources.
an amazing example of how a nation state can reach sea restitution with its people.
And finally, in the end, I think it's pretty obvious, at least all of us who've traveled in these remote reaches of the planet to realize that they're not remote at all.
their home lands of somebody.
They represent branches of the human imagination that go back to the dawn of time.
And for all of us, the dreams of these children, like the dreams of our own children, become part of the naked geography of hope.
So what we're trying to do at the National Geographic, finally, is we believe that politicians will never accomplish anything.
get 35 million hits in our website every month.
156 nations carry our television channel.
are magazines are read by millions.
And what we're doing is a series of journeys to the ethno sphere where we're going to take our audience to places of such cultural wonder that they cannot help but come away dazzled by what they have seen. And hopefully, therefore, embrace gradually one by one, the central revelation of anthropology that this world deserves to exist in a diverse way, that we can find a way to live an attrule multicultural, pluralistic world where all of the wisdom of all peoples can contribute to our collective well-being.
Thank you very much.
This is really a two hour presentation I give the high school students cut down to three minutes.
And it all started when they on a plane on my way to Ted seven years ago.
And then the seat next to you is a high school student, a teenager, and she came from a really poor family.
and she wanted to make something of her life. And she asked me a simple little question.
She said, what leads to success. And I felt really badly because I couldn't give her a good answer.
So I get off the plane and I come to tent.
And I think, geez, I'm in the middle of a room of successful people.
So what I don't want to ask them what help them succeed and pass it on to kids.
So here we are, seven years, 500 interviews later, and I'm going to tell you what really leads to success and makes test just take.
And the first thing is passion.
Freeman Thomas says I'm driven by my passion. Test just do it for love, they don't do it for money.
Carol Collettis says, I would pay someone to do what I do. The interesting thing is if you do it for love, the money comes anyway.
Work.
Rupert Murdoch said to me, it's all hard work.
Nothing comes easily.
But I have a lot of fun. Did he say fun?
Rupert?
Yes!
Tests do have fun working
and they work hard.
I figured they're not worth a hollocks.
to work a fraud.
Good!
and its focus.
Normadious and said to me, I think it all has to do with focusing yourself on one thing. And push.
David Gallos has pushed yourself.
Physically, manly, you've got to push, push, push. You've got to push through shyness, and self-doubt.
The only hands as I always had soft notes.
I wasn't good enough. I wasn't smart enough.
I didn't think I'd make it. Now it's not always easy to push yourself, and that's why they invented mothers.
Sure when Newman says it was a privilege to serve as a doctor. Now a lot of kids tell me they want to be millionaires.
And the first thing I say to them is, okay, you can't serve yourself. You got to serve others something of value.
because that's the way people really get rich.
Headster Bill Gates says, I had an idea. Founding the first micro computer software company. I'd say it was a pretty good idea.
And there's no magic to create, Tiffany, and coming up with ideas. It's just doing some very simple things.
And I give lots of evidence.
persist.
Joe Kraus says persistence is a number one reason for our success. You got to persist through failure.
You got to persist to crap.
which of course means criticism rejection, asshole's impression. So the big answer to this question is simple. Pay 4,000 bucks and come to Ted.
or failing that to the eight things and trust me, these are the big eight things that lead to success.
Thank you, teachers for all your interviewers.
I want to start off by saying Houston we have a problem.
We're entering a second generation of no progress in terms of human flight in space.
In fact, we were grasped.
We stand a very big chance of losing our ability to inspire our youth to go out and continue this very important thing that we as a species have always done.
And that is instinctively we've gone out and climbed over difficult places, went to more hostile places and found out later, maybe to our surprise that that's the reason we survived.
And I feel very strongly that it's not good enough for us to have generations of kids that think that it's okay to look forward to a better version of a cell phone with a video in it.
They need to look forward to exploration. They need to look forward to colonization. They need to look forward to breakthroughs.
We need to inspire them because they need to lead us and help us survive in the future.
I'm particularly troubled that what NASA is doing right now with this new bush doctrine for this next decade and a half, oh shoot, I screwed up.
We have real specific instructions here, not to talk about politics.
Quick.
We're going to go back to the moon and move 50 years later and we're going to do it very specifically planned to not learn anything new.
I'm really troubled by that.
Anyway, that's the basis of the thing that I want to share with you today, though, is that right back to where we inspire people who will be our great leaders later.
That's the theme of my next 15 minutes here.
And I think that the inspiration begins when you're very young. Three year olds up to 12, 14 year olds.
What they look at is the most important thing.
Let's take a snapshot at aviation.
And there was a wonderful little short four-year time period when marvelous things happened.
started 1908 when the Wright brothers flew in Paris and everybody said, hey, I can do that. There was only a few people that had flown in early 1908.
In four years, 39 countries had hundreds of airplane thousands of pilots.
Airplane was invented by natural selection.
Now you can say that intelligent design designs are airplanes of today, but there was no intelligent design really designing those early airplanes.
There were probably at least 30,000 different things tried. And when they crash and kill the pilot, no try that again.
So the ones that flew and landed okay because there was no train pilots who were had good flying qualities by definition.
So we by making a whole bunch of attempts, thousands of attempts. In that four-year time period we invented the concepts of the airplanes that we fly today.
And that's why they're so safe as we gave a lot of chance to find what's good.
that has not happened at all in space flying
Well, who was inspired during that time period?
Maybe I should ask me to make a list of who I thought or the movers and chargers of the first hundred years of aviation.
And I wrote them down and I found out later that every one of them was a little kid in that wonderful Renaissance of aviation.
Well what happened when I was a little kid was, was some pretty heavy stuff too.
The jet age started, the missile age started.
uh... on brun was on their showing how to go to mars and this was before spudnik and
was at a time when Mars was a hell of a lot more interesting than it is now.
we thought there'd be animals there. We knew there were plants there. The colors changed, right?
But NASA screwed that up because they've sent these robots and they've landed only in the deserts.
If you look at what happened, this is a black line as fast as man ever flew. And the red line is a top of the line military fighters. And the blue line is commercial air transport.
You notice there's a big jump when I was a little kid. And I think that had something to do with giving me the courage to go out and try something that other people weren't having the courage to try.
What did I do when I was a kid?
I didn't do the hot rods and the girls in the dancing and well we didn't have drugs in those days.
but I did competition model airplanes.
I spent about seven years there in the Vietnam War of flight testing airplanes for the Air Force.
And then I went in and I had a lot of fun building airplanes that people could build in their garage.
and some 3,000 of these are flying
Of course, one of them is around the world, Voyager.
I found another company in 82 which is my company now.
And we have developed more than one new type of airplane every year since 1980.
and there's a lot of them that I actually can't show you on this chart.
The most impressive airplane ever, I believe, was designed only a dozen years after the first operational jet.
Stayed in service to tell it was too rusty to fly and take an out of service.
We retreated in 98 back to something that was developed in 56.
What?
The most impressive spaceship ever, I believe, was a grimant lunar lander.
If it's a land on the moon, take off on the moon, didn't need any maintenance guys. That's kind of cool.
We've lost that capability.
We band it in 70
This thing was designed three years after Gagarin first flew in space in 1966.
Three years. And we can't do that now.
Crazy.
talk very briefly about innovation cycles, things that grow, have a lot of activity, they die out when they replace by something else.
things tend to happen every 25 years.
40 years long with an overlap
you can put that statement on all kinds of different technologies.
The interesting thing, by the way, the speed here, excuse me, higher speed travel is the title of these innovation cycles.
There is none here.
These two new airplanes are the same speed as the DC8 that was done in 1958.
Here's the biggie, and that is you don't have innovation cycles if the government develops in the government uses it.
You know, a good example, of course, is the DARPA net.
computers for use for artillery first and IRS.
But when we got it, now you have all the level of activity, all the benefit from it.
private sector has to do it.
keep that in mind.
I put down innovation, I've looked for innovation cycles in space and I found none.
The very first year, starting when Gagarin went in space in a few weeks later, Ellen Shepherd, there were five men's space flights in the world, the very first year.
In 2003, everyone that the United States sent to space was killed.
There were only three or four flights in 2003.
And then in four, there were only two flights, two Russians saw use flights to the International Men Station.
And I had to fly three in Mahave with my little group of a couple dozen people in order to get to a total of five, which was the number of the same year back in
There is no growth.
There is no activities.
There's no nothing.
This is a picture here taken from spaceship one.
This is a picture here taken from orbit.
Our goal is to make it so that you can see this picture and really enjoy that.
we know how to do it for suborbital flying now, do it safe enough. At least it safe as the early airlines, so that can be done.
And I think that I want to talk a little bit about why we had the courage to go out and try that as a small company.
First of all, what's going to happen next?
The first industry will be a high volume, a lot of players.
There's another one announced just last week.
and it will be suborbital.
And the reason it has to be subarbital is there is not solutions for adequate safety to fly the public to orbit.
The governments have been doing this three governments have been doing this for 45 years and still 4% of the people that left the atmosphere have died.
You know what to run a business with that kind of a safety right?
It will be very high volume. We think a hundred thousand people will fly by 2020.
I can't tell you when this will start because I don't want my competition to know my schedule.
But I think once it does, we will find solutions and very quickly you'll see those resort hotels in orbit.
And that really easy thing to do, which is a swing around the moon, so you have this cool view.
And that'll be really cool.
is a moon doesn't have an atmosphere you can do an elliptical orbit and miss it by ten feet if you want
Oh, that's going to be so much fun.
Okay.
My critics say, hey, Routaine's just been in a lot of these billionaires money to for joy rights for billionaires.
What's
It is not transportation system. It's just for fun. And I used to be bothered by that, and then I got to thinking, well, wait a minute.
I bought my first Apple computer in 1978. And I bought it because I could say, I got a computer at my house and you don't.
And what do you use it for? Come over here.
does frogger.
Not the banks computer or lock-age computer, but the home computer was for games.
For a whole decade, it was for fun. We didn't even know what it was for.
But what happened in fact that we had this big industry, big development, big improvement in capability and so on and they get out there and enough homes, we were ripe for a new invention.
And then the inventor is in this audience.
Al Gore invented the internet and because of that what something that we use for a whole year, excuse me, whole decade for fun became everything. Our commerce, our research, our communication and if we let the Google guys think for another couple of weekends, we can add, it doesn't more things to the list.
It won't be very long before you won't be able to convince kids that we didn't always have computers in our homes.
So fun is defendable.
Okay, I want to show you kind of a busy chart, but it in it is my prediction with what's going to happen.
and in it also brings up another point right here.
I want to start with a story of a Seth Gauden from when I was 12 years old.
My uncle Ed gave me a beautiful blue sweater. This I thought it was beautiful.
And it had fuzzy zebras walking across the stomach and Mount Kilimanjaro and Mount Meru kind of right across the chest that were also fuzzy.
And I worked whenever I could thinking it was the most fabulous thing I own.
Until one day in ninth grade, when I was standing with a number of football players,
And my body had clearly changed and Matt Mussolini, who was undeniably my nemesis in high school, set in a booming voice that we no longer had to go far away to go on ski trips, but we could all ski on Mount Novogratts.
And I was so humiliated and mortified that he immediately ran home to my mother and chastised her for ever letting me wear the hideous sweater.
We drove to the good well and we threw the sweater away somewhat ceremoniously. My idea being that I would never have to think about this sweater nor see it ever again.
Fast forward, 11 years later on the 25-year-old kid.
Working in Kigali Rwanda jogging through the steep slopes. When I see 10 feet in front of me, a little boy, 11 years old, running toward me wearing my sweater.
And I'm thinking, no, this is not possible.
but so curious I run up to the child. Of course, scaring the living with Jesus out of him, grab him by the collar, turn it over and there is my name written on the collar of this sweater.
I tell that story because it has served and continues to serve as metaphor to me about the level of connectedness that we all have on this earth.
We so often don't realize what our action and our inaction does to people. We think we will never say and never know.
I also tell it because it tells a larger contextual story of what aid is and can be.
that this traveled into the goodwill in Virginia and moved its way into the larger industry, which is that point was giving millions of tons of secondhand clothing to African Asia.
which was a very good thing providing the blow-cost clothing.
And at the same time, certainly in Rwanda, it destroyed the local retailing industry.
not to say that it shouldn't have, but that we have to get better at answering the questions that need to be considered when we think about consequences and responses.
So I'm going to stick in Rewanda circa in 1985, 1986. Why I was doing two things.
I started a bakery with 20 unwed mothers.
We call the bad news bears and our notion was we were going to corner the snack food business in Kigali, which was not hard because there were no snacks before us.
And because we had a good business model, we actually did it. And I watched these women transform on a micro level.
But at the same time, I started a microfinance bank. And tomorrow, Ikbok Kaderi is going to talk about Grammene, which is the grandfather of all microfinance banks. Which now is a worldwide movement. You talk about a meme. But then it was quite new, especially in a economy that was moving from barter into trade.
We've got a lot of things right.
We focus on a business model, we insist on skin in the game.
The women made their own decisions at the end of the day as to how they would use this access to credit to build their little businesses earn more income so they could take care of their families better.
What we didn't understand was happening all around us with the confluence of fear, ethnic, strife, and certainly an aid game, if you will, that was playing into this invisible, but certainly palpable movement inside Wanda. At that time, 30% of the budget was all foreign aid.
The genocide happened in 1994, seven years after these women all worked together to build this dream.
And the good news was that the institution, the banking institution, lasted.
In fact, it became the largest rehabilitation lender in the country.
The bakery was completely wiped out, but the lessons for me were that accountability counts, got to build things with people on the ground using business models where a Stephen level would say the incentives matter.
understand how ever complex we make be in census matter.
So when Chris raised to me, and how wonderful everything was happening in the world that we were seeing as shift in zeitgeist. On the one hand, I absolutely agree with him. And I was so thrilled to see what happened with the G8 that the world, because of people like Tony Blair and Bono and Bob Gueldoff, the world is talking about global poverty, the world is talking about Africa and why I have never seen in my life.
It's thrilling.
And at the same time, what keeps me up at night is a fear that will look at the victories of the G8, $50 billion in increased aid to Africa, $40 billion in reduced debt as the victory, as more than chapter one, as our moral absolution.
And in fact, what we need to do is see that is chapter one, celebrate it, close it, and recognize that we need a chapter two that is all about execution, all about the how-to.
And if you remember one thing from what I want to talk about today, it's that the only way to end poverty, to make it history, is to build viable systems on the ground that deliver critical and affordable goods and services to the poor in ways that are financially sustainable and scalable.
If we do that, we really can make poverty history.
And it was that whole philosophy that encouraged me to start my current endeavor called Acumen Fund, which is trying to build some mini-blue prints for how we might do that in water, health, and housing in Pakistan, India, Kenya, Tanzania, and Egypt.
And I want to talk a little bit about that and some of the examples so you can see what it is that we're doing.
But before I do this, and this is another one of my pet food thieves, I want to talk a little bit about who the poor are.
because we too often talk about the Mesquids. Strong, huge masses of people, you're going to be free. When in fact, it's quite an amazing story.
on a macro level, 4 billion people on Earth make less than $4 a day.
that's who we talk about when we think about the four. If you aggregated it to the third largest economy on earth, then yet most of these people go indisible.
where we typically work as people making between one and three dollars a day.
Who are these people?
They are farmers and factory workers
they working in government offices.
their drivers.
are domestic.
They typically pay for critical goods and services like water, like healthcare, like housing, and they pay 30 to 40 times with their middle class counterparts pay. Certainly, where we work in Karachi and Nairobi.
The poor also are willing to make and do make smart decisions if you give them that opportunity.
So two examples.
One is in India where there are 240 million farmers, most of whom make less than $2 a day.
where we work in a wrong abide land is extraordinarily
You see people on average making 60 cents to a dollar.
This Skyham Pink is a social entrepreneur named Amitaba.
What he did was see what was happening in Israel, larger approaches, and figure out how to drip irrigation, which is a way of bringing water directly to the plant stock.
But previously, it's only been created for large scale farms. So I'm a toddler took this and modularized it down to a eighth of an acre.
A couple of principles. Build small.
make it infinitely and expandable and affordable to the poor.
This family, Sariqa and her husband bought a $15 unit when they were living in a literally three-walled lane two with it, corrugated iron, roof.
After one harvest, they had increased their income enough to buy a second system to do their full quarter acre.
a couple years later, I meet them.
They now make $4 a day, which is pretty much middle class for India, and they showed me the concrete foundation they just laid to build their house.
And I swear you could see the future in that woman's eyes.
something I truly believe.
You can't talk about poverty today without talking about malaria beddets, and I again give Jeffrey Sachs of Harvard huge kudos for bringing to the world this notion of his rage. For $5, you can save a life.
malaria disease that kills 1 to 3 million people a year.
to $500 to $500 million in cases are reported.
It's estimated that Africa loses about $13 billion a year to the disease.
5DOS can save a life
We can send people to the moon. We can see if there's life on Mars. Why can't we get $5 net to $500 million people?
The question though is not, why can't we? The question is, how can we help Africans do this for themselves?
A lot of hurdles.
One production is too low.
to prices too high.
This is a good road in right near where our factory is located.
distribution is a nightmare, but not impossible.
We started by making a $350,000 loan to the largest traditional bednet manufacturer in Africa so that they could transfer a technology from Japan and build these long lasting five year nets.
Here are just some pictures of the factory.
Today, three years later, the company has employed another thousand women.
contributes about $600,000 in wages to the economy of Tanzania.
the largest company in Tanzania.
the throughput rate right now is 1.5 million nets 3 million by the end of the year.
We hope to have 7 million at the end of next year.
So the production side is working.
on the distribution side though as a world we have a lot of work to do.
right now, 95% of these nets are being bought by the UN, and then given primarily to people around Africa.
We are looking at building on some of the most precious resources of Africa people.
They're women.
And so I want you to meet Jacqueline, my name's Jake 21 years old.
If she were born anywhere else, but Tanzania, I'm telling you she could run Wall Street.
She runs two of the lines and has already saved enough money to put a down payment on her house.
She makes about $2 a day. Creating an education fund and told me she is not marrying or having children until these things are completed.
And so when I told her about our idea that maybe we could take a Tupperware model from the United States and find a way for the women themselves to go out and sell these nets to others. She quickly started calculating what she herself could make and signed up.
We took a lesson from IDO, one of our favorite companies, and quickly did a prototyping on this. And took Jacqueline into the area where she lives.
She brought 10 of the women with whom she interacts together to see if she could sell these next $5 a piece despite the fact that people say nobody will buy one. And we learned a lot about how you sell things.
not coming with our own notions because she didn't even talk about malaria until the very end.
First she talked about comfort status beauty.
These nets you said you put them on the floor, bugs leave your house.
Children can sleep through the night. The house looks beautiful. You hang them in the window.
We started making curtains and not only is it beautiful but people can see status that you care about your children.
Only then did she talk about saving your children?
your children's lives. A lot of lessons to be learned in terms of how we sell goods and services to the poor.
I want to end just by saying that there's a non-ass opportunity to make poverty history.
To do it right, we have to build business models that matter, that are scalable, and that work with Africans, Indians, people all over the developed and world who fit in this category to do it themselves.
because at the end of the day it's about engagement.
It's about understanding that people really don't want handouts, but they want to make their own decisions, they want to solve their own problems, and that by engaging with them, not only do we create much more dignity for them, but for us as well.
And so I urge all of you to think next time as to how do we engage with this notion and this opportunity that we all have to make poverty history by really becoming part of the process and moving away from an us and then world and realizing that it's about all of us and the kind of world that we together want to live it in share.
Thank you.
Thank you. 18 minutes is an absolutely brutal time limit so I'm going to dive straight in and write it at the point where I get this thing to work.
you
I'm going to talk about five different things.
I'm going to talk about why defeating aging is desirable.
I'm going to talk about why we have to get our shit together and actually talk about this a bit more than we do.
I'm going to talk about feasibility as well of course.
I'm going to talk about why we are so fatalistic about doing anything about aging.
And then I'm going to spend perhaps a second half of the talk talking about why we might actually be able to prove that our fatalism is wrong, namely by actually doing something about
I'm going to do that in two steps.
The first one I'm going to talk about is how to get from a relatively modest amount of life extension, which I'm going to define as 30 years, applied to people who are already in middle age when you start, to appoint which can genuinely be called defeating aging.
namely essentially an elimination of the relationship between how old you are and how likely you are to die in the next year or in date to get sick in the first place.
And of course the last thing I'm going to talk about is how to reach that intermediate step, that point of maybe 30 years, life extension.
So I'm gonna start with why we should.
Now I want to ask a question.
hands up anyone of the audience who is in favor of malaria.
Bye.
OK.
Okay.
Have anyone with the audience is not sure whether malaria is a good thing or a bad thing?
OK.
So we often hilarious about things.
That's very good news because I thought that would probably answer would be.
Now, now, the thing is I would like to put it to you that the main reason why we think that malaria is a bad thing is because of a characteristic of malaria that it shares with aging.
And here is that characteristic.
The only real difference is that aging kills considerably more people than malaria does.
Now I like an audience in Britain especially to talk about the comparison with Fox hunting, which is something that was banned after a long struggle by the government, not very many months ago.
I mean, I know I'm with a sympathetic audience here, but as we know, a lot of people are not entirely persuaded by this logic.
And this is actually a rather good comparison, it seems to me.
You know, a lot of people said, well, you know, it's that city boys have no business telling us a time of rural type what to do with that time.
It's a traditional part of the way of life and we shouldn't be, we should be let carry on doing it.
It's ecologically sound, it's top to population explosion of foxes, but ultimately the government prevailed in the end because the majority of the British public and certainly the majority of members of parliament came to the conclusion that it was really something that should not be tolerated in a civilised society.
and I think that human aging shares all of these characteristics in spades.
What part of these two people not understand?
It's not just about life, of course. It's about healthy life. You know, getting frail and miserable independence is no fun. Whether or not dying maybe fun.
So really, this is what a little highlight to describe.
global trends.
These are the sorts of unbelievable excuses that people get through aging.
And I mean, okay, I'm not actually saying that these excuses are completely valid.
There are some good points between major things that we ought to be thinking about forward planning so that nothing goes too well so that we minimize the turbulence when we actually figure out how to fix aging.
But these are completely crazy when you actually remember your sense of proportion.
You know, these are arguments. These are things that you have a legitimate, it would be legitimate to be concerned about.
But the question is, are they so dangerous these risks of doing something about aging that they outweigh the downside of doing the opposite, namely leaving aging as
Are these so bad that they outweigh condemning 100,000 people a day to an unnecessarily early death?
You know, if you haven't got an argument that's that strong, then just don't waste my time. It's what I say.
Now there is one argument that some people do think really is that strong and here it is.
People worry about other populations. They say, well, if we fix aging, no one's going to die to speak of, or at least that's totally going to be much lower, only from crossing St. Giles, Calislic.
And therefore we're not going to be able to have many kids and kids are really important to most people. And that's true.
And a lot of people try to filter this question and give answers like this.
I don't agree with those answers.
I think they basically don't work.
I think it's true that we will face a dilemma in this respect.
we will have to decide whether to have a low birth rate or a high death rate.
The high death rate will of course arise from simply rejecting these therapies and in favor of carrying on having a lot of kids.
And I say that that's fine. The future of humanity is entitled to make that choice.
What's not fine is for us to make that choice on behalf of the future.
Mae'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
That's my answer to the Aguapabilizing question.
Right.
So the next thing is, no, why should we get a little bit more active on this?
and the fundamental answer is that the prologyting class is not as dumb as it looks.
It's actually a sensible way of coping with the inevitability of aging.
Aging is ghastly, but it's inevitable, so we've got to find some way to put it out of our minds, and it's rational to do anything. We might want to do to do that.
Like for example, making up these ridiculous reasons why aging is actually a good thing after all.
But of course, that only works when we have both of these components.
And as soon as the inevitability bit becomes a little bit unclear, and we might be in range of doing something about ageing, this becomes part of the problem.
This prologue in France is what stops us from agitating about these things.
And that's why we have to really talk about this a lot of antilies, I will get as far as to say, quite a lot, in order to get people's attention and make people realize that they are in a trance in this regard.
So that's what I'm gonna say about that.
a hynna gyn o'r talk about a feasibility.
And the fundamental reason I think why we feel that aging is inevitable is some doubt in a definition of aging that I'm giving here.
Very simple definition.
aging is a side effect of being alive in the first place, which is to say,
Mae'n yw'n yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gw
Adu ni'n ydda'n prosesd o'n'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n'n amydodd i'n'n amydodd i'n'n amydodd i'n'n amydodd i'n'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydodd i'n amydod
So basically metabolism, which is defined as basically everything that keeps us alive from one day to the next, has side effects.
those side effects accumulate and eventually cause pathology.
That's a fine definition.
Mae yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'
And there are only two games in town, according to most people, with regard to postponing anything.
Mae'n gwneud yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd yn ymthioedd
Mae'n yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'n gweld yw'
Mae'n yw'n gwneud yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn y
But unfortunately, the thing is that we don't understand the top of this in very well.
Mae'n ffraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthraith yn ymthra
Mae'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
Basically, drone told me is a fine approach in the end, but if it is not an approach whose time has come when we're talking about intervention.
So then, what do we do about this?
I mean, that's a fine logic. That sounds pretty convincing, pretty unclad doesn't it?
by the event.
Before I tell you why it isn't, I'm going to go a little bit into what I'm calling step two.
Just the pose, as I said, that we do acquire. Let's say we do it today for second argument. The ability to confer 30 extra year of healthy life on people who are already in middle age, let's say 55.
I'm going to call that robust human redefinition.
What would that actually mean for how long people of various ages today, or equivalently of various ages at the time that these therapy to rise, would actually live?
And also answer that question. You might think it's simple, but it's not simple.
We can't just say, well, if they're young enough to benefit from these therapies, then they'll live 30 years longer. That's the wrong answer.
i'n y rhyd yn y rhyd yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn y
Mae'n yw'n cyfysd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn
There are fundamental major breakthroughs and there are incremental refinements of those breakthroughs.
Now they differ a great deal in terms of the predictability of time frames.
Fundamental breakthroughs. Very hard to predict how long it's going to take to make a fundamental
very long time ago that we decided that flying would be fun and it took us in till 1903 to actually work out how to do it.
But after that, things were pretty steady and pretty uniform.
Mae'n gwneud yw'n gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn
We can think really that each one is sort of beyond the imagination of the inventors of the previous one, if you like.
The incremental advances are added to something which is not incremental anymore.
This is the sort of thing you see after a fundamental breakthrough.
and you see it in all sorts of technologies.
Compute if you can look at a more or less parallel timeline, I would have of course a bit later.
You can look at medical care.
a'r hydryn, a'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy'r ddwy
So I think that actually, step two that I call a step a moment ago isn't a step at all.
That in fact, the people who are young enough to benefit from these first therapies that give this moderate amount of life extension, even though those people are already middle-aged when the therapies arrive, will be at some sort of cost.
Mae'n yw'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i
In other words, they will be staying ahead of the game. They will be...
The therapies will be improving faster than the remaining imperfections in the therapies are catching up with us.
This is a very important point for me to go to craft.
Mae'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
I'm not saying that at all.
I'm saying that the rates of improvement of those therapies will be enough.
they'll never be perfect, but we'll be able to fix the things that 200-year-olds dialed before we have any 200-year-olds.
for the same for 3 and 400 and so on.
Dysodu, a ddim yn ymwysol yn ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol i'n ddefyddiol
Mae'n ydym yn ymthodd o'r gwneud yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd
Mae'n yw'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'r i'
you won't be able to withstand them.
But if you're only 50, then the chance that you might be able to pull out of the dive. Eventually, it gets through this and becomes biologically younger in a meaningful sense in terms of your usefulness, the political and mental in terms of your risk of death from age-related causes.
And of course, if you, but younger than that, then you're not going to get near to being fragile enough to die of a directed course.
Mae'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud. Mae'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn ymthio'n gwneud yn
But irrespective of that age, I'm claiming that the first person to live to a thousand subject of course to global catastrophes is actually probably only about 10 years younger than the first 150 or older.
And that's quite a thought.
So finally, I'm going to spend the rest of the talk, my last seven and a half minutes, on step one. Namely, how do we actually get to this moderate amount of life extension that will allow us to get to a scalability?
And in order to do that, I need to talk about mice a little bit.
I have a corresponding milestone to robust human religion.
yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd yn ymthodd
and the
I say we're going to take a long live strain of mouth, which basically means mice that live about three years on average.
We do exactly nothing to it and until they're already two years old.
And then we do a whole bunch of stuff to them, and with those therapies we get them to live on average to their fifth birth time.
So in other words, we add two years, we trouble their remaining lifespan starting from the point that we started the therapies.
The question that is, what would that actually mean for the time frame until we get to the milestone I talked about earlier for humans?
oedd yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw'r gwneud yn yw
Secondly, what does it mean for the public's perception of how long it's going to take for us to get to those things starting from the time we get the mice?
And thirdly, the question is what will it do to actually how much people want it?
And it seems to me that the first question is entirely a biology question and it's extremely hard to answer.
i'n yw'n gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymth
I say that's nonsense.
I say we absolutely are irresponsible if we stay silent on this.
Mae'n yw'n gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymthio'r gwneud yn ymth
So I say that we have a 50-50 chance of reaching this RHS milestone robust human redevination within 15 years from the point that we get to robust mass redevination.
from the robust mouse.
The public's perception will probably be somewhat better than that.
The public tend to underestimate how difficult scientific things are.
So that'll probably thank it five years ago.
I'll be wrong, but that actually won't matter too much.
And finally, of course, I think it's better to say that a large part of the reason why the public are so ambivalent about it now is the global trans-Sespochabad earlier, the coping strategy.
That will be history at this point because it will no longer be possible to believe that aging is inevitable in humans since it's been postponed so very effectively in mice.
Mae'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
So in order to tell you now how we're going to get these mice, I'm going to add a little bit to my descriptions.
I'm going to use this word damage to denote these intermediate things that are caused by metabolism and that against eventually cause pathology.
Because the critical thing about this is that even though the damage only eventually causes pathology, the damage itself is caused ongoingly throughout life starting before we're born.
But it is not part of metabolism itself.
And this turned that to be useful.
we can redraw original diagram this way.
We can say that fundamentally the difference between georontology and geriatics is that georontology tries to inhibit the rate at which metabolism lays down this damage.
And I'm going to explain exactly what damage if in concrete biological turns in a moment.
and dairy attrition try to hold back the fans of time by stopping the damage converting into pathology.
the reason it's alluding battle is because the damage is continuing to accumulate.
So there's a third approach if we look at it this way.
we can call it the engineering approach and I claim that the engineering approach is within range.
The engineering approach does not intervene in any process.
If he does nothing to be in this process.
And that's good because it means that it's not a losing battle and it's something that we are within range of being able to do because it doesn't involve improving on evolution.
Engineering approach simply says, let's go in and periodically repair all of these various types of damage. Not necessarily rather completely, but repair them quite a lot so that we keep the level of damage down below the threshold that must exist, that causes it to be pathogenic. We know that this threshold exists because we don't get age-related disease until we're in mid-late, even though the damage has been accumulating since before we were born.
Why do I say that we're in rain?
Well, this is basically it.
The point of that this slide is actually the bottom.
If we try to say which bits of metabolism are important for ageing, we will be here all night, because basically all of metabolism is important for ageing in one way or another.
This list is just for illustration, it is incomplete.
The list on the right is also incomplete.
It's a list of types of pathology that are age-related and it's just an incomplete list.
But I would like to claim to you that this list in the middle is actually complete. This is the list of types of things that qualify as damage, side effects of metabolism and blood cause pathology in the end or that might cause pathology.
and there are only seven of them.
They're a category of things, of course, but there's only seven of them.
It's our loss. Nutrition in crime assays, mutations in the mitochondria and so on.
And first of all, I'd like to give you an argument for why that list is complete.
Azt most mondka meg a baj, rosszunk a lagy-mömm.
What can say, okay, what are we made of, we made of cells and stuff between cells?
what can damage accumulated in?
the answer is, long lived molecules, because if I thought if molecule undergoes damage, but then the molecule is destroyed, like by a protein being destroyed by a protein other system, then the damage is gone too.
Mae'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
So these seven things were all under discussion, in derontology, a long time ago. And that is pretty good news, because it means that, you know, we've come a long way in biology in these 20 years. So the fact that we haven't had extended this list is pretty good indication that there's no extension to be done.
However, it's better than that, we actually know how to fix them all. In mice, in principle. And what I mean by in principle is we probably can actually implement these fixes within a decade.
Mae'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n yw'n y
I haven't got time to go through the material, but if we can, my conclusion is that if we can actually get suitable funding for this, then we can probably develop robust mass redevelopenation in only 10 years, but we do need to get serious about it.
We do need to really start trying.
So, of course, there is a biologist in the audience and you say, I want to give some answers to some of the questions that you may have.
you may have been disatisfied with this tour. But fundamentally, you have to go and read this stuff.
I've published a great deal on this. I cite the experimental work on which my optimism is based and there's quite a lot of detail there.
The detail is what makes me confident of my rather aggressive timeframes that I'm predicting here.
So if you think that I'm wrong, you'd better done well go and find out why you think I'm wrong.
And of course the main thing is that you shouldn't trust people who call themselves geologist because as with any radical departure from previous thinking within a particular field, you know, you expect people not people in the mainstream to be a bit resistant and not really to take it seriously.
So you've got it actually to your homework in order to understand whether this is true.
I will just answer with a few things.
One thing is you'll be hearing from a guy in the next session who said, sometimes a guy that he could sequence the human genome in half no time. And everyone said, well, it's obviously impossible. And you know what happened.
So you know, that's what happened.
We have various strategies. There's the Missier's of the Mass Prize, which is basically an incentive to innovate and to do what you think is going to work and you get money for it, if you win.
those are proposal to actually put together an institute.
This is what's going to take a bit of money.
But I mean, look, how long have you taken to spend that on the war in Iraq?
Not very long.
OK.
It's got to be philanthropic because profits distract, but it's basically got a 90% chance, I think, of succeeding in this.
And I think we now have to do it.
I thought
you
people the child.
And since you've been talking about aging and trying to defeat it, why is it that you make yourself appear like an old man?
Because I am an old man.
Einmal kaffeehunderten verflieh.
However, as far as I know, all the species have evolved to actually die. So when cells divide the telomerate, it gets shorter and eventually species die.
So why does evolution seem to have selected against immortality when it is so advantageous? Or is evolution just incomplete?
Berlin.
Thank you for asking a question that I can answer with an uncontroversial answer.
I'm going to tell you the genuine mainstream answer to your question, which I happen to agree with. Which is that no, aging is not a product of selection. Evolution is simply a product of evolutionary neglect.
In other words, we have aging because it's hard work, not to have aging. You need more genetic pathway, more sophistication in your genes in order to age more slowly. That carries on being true, the longer you put it out.
So to the extent that it doesn't care whether dreams are passed on by individuals living a long time or by procreation, there's a certain amount of modulation of that which is why different species have different lifespans but that's why there are no mortal species.
The jeans don't care but we do.
right.
Hello.
I read some of that in the last 20 years the average lifespan of basically anyone on the planet as grown by 10 years.
If I project that, that would make me think that I would live until 120 if I don't crash on my motorbike.
That means that I'm one of your subjects to become a thousand-year-old.
If you live a bit of white.
Your numbers are a bit out.
Mae'n yw'n yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gw
So it's not quite as good as you might think. You might hope.
but I intend to move it up to one year per year as soon as possible.
I was told that many of the brain cells we have as adults are actually in the human embryo and that the brain cells last 80 years or so.
If that is indeed true biologically, are there implications in the world of rejuvenation?
And if there are cells in my body that live all 80 years as opposed to typical, you know, couple of months.
There are technical implications certainly.
Mae'n yw'n gwneud yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw'n gwneud yn yw
Mae'n yw'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'n i'
There are species that have no aging, hydrophilic example, but they do it by not having another system and not having any tissue in fact that relies on their function on very long-lived cells.
you
you
I mean, what is this how to do a technology entertainment design?
Well, I can't my iPad, so it's not an computer technology, but this has nothing to do with that.
So I did a research on it.
Wow, this is what I found.
of course I hope I can memorize it.
and four mouse rings.
the coin is streamed by bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and bits and
We thank you.
Okay, on the other hand, we're placing your finger at different places on the fingerboard to the string length that's changed. That's the same way.
Oh my gosh.
This is sort of a technology, but I can call it a 16th century technology.
But actually the most fascinating thing that I found was that even the audio system or web transmission nowadays are still basically, it's time they're seeing principle of producing projectile sound.
You're cool?
I remember when I was little, my mom asked me, would you like to play the violin or the piano? I looked at the giant monster and said to myself, I am not going to lock myself on that bench the whole day. This is not in weight.
I can play from standing sitting for walking.
And you know what?
The best of all is that if I don't want to practice, I can hide it.
It's very beautiful.
Some people really learn as a shape of a lady.
But when I later or not, it's been so fun with it 400 years and I'm like modern stuff that easily looks dated.
But I think it's very personal unique that although each final look pretty similar, that no two violence sound the same, even from the same maker or based on the same matter.
entertainment, I love the entertainment.
But actually, the instrument itself isn't very entertaining.
I mean, when I first got my violin and tried to play around it, it was actually really bad because I'm not showing the way her from other kids so horrible and so scratchy.
So, is there a turning it off?
But besides my brother found this very fun.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I heard a joke about greatest fallenest
After Mr. Hippets' concert, a lady came over and complimented, oh Mr. Hippets, your balance and so great tonight. Mr. Hippets are a very cool person. So, picked up by all and said, funny. I don't care anything.
you
But
Although some of them were quite up there for me.
Like the multi-dimensional stuff.
I mean, honestly, I'd be happy enough if I can actually get my two-dimension correct in school.
But actually the most impressive thing to me is that, well actually I would also like to scan this for our children, is to say thank you to our adults for actually caring for us a lot and to make our future world much better.
I like the speaker for me. I am a TED version, I guess.
I'm also the first time here and
I don't know what to say.
I'm really grateful that I get a chance to play for everyone.
And the song that I just played was by Joseph Hoffman.
It's called Clituscope. And Hoffman is a Polish pianist and composer of the late 19th century. And he's widely considered one of the greatest pianists of all time.
I have another piece that I'd like to play for you.
It's called Abek Variations by Robert Schumann, a German 19th century composer.
The name Abek, Abek is actually AB, EGG and that's the main theme of the melody.
that comes from the last name of one of Schumann's female friends.
But he wrote that for his wife.
So actually if you listen carefully, there's supposed to be five variations on this object theme.
It's written around 1834, so even though it's old, I hope you like it.
Well, because Mr. Anderson told me that this session is called Sink and Flow, I was wondering what do I know that these geniuses don't? So I'll talk about musical composition, even though I don't know where to start.
How do I compose?
I think Yamaha does a really good job of teaching us how to encompass.
What I do first is I make a lot of little musical ideas you can just improvise here at the piano and I choose one of those to become my main theme, my main melody, like the obit that you just heard.
And once I choose my main theme, I have to decide out of all the styles of music, what kind of style do I want.
And this year I composed a romantic style.
So for inspiration, I listen to list and Tikoski and all the great romantic composers.
Next, I make the structure of the entire piece with my teachers.
They help me plan out the whole piece.
And then the hard part is filling it in with musical ideas because then you have to think.
And then when the piece takes somewhat of a solid-fied form, so litified, excuse me. So litified form, you're supposed to actually polish the details and then polish the overall performance of the composition.
And another thing that I enjoy doing is drawing.
Join because I like to draw Japanese anime art.
I think that's a crazy among teens right now.
And once I realized it, there's a parallel between creating music and creating art, because for your motive or your little initial idea for your drawing, it's your character. You want to decide who do you want to draw or if you want to draw an original character.
and then you want to decide how are you going to draw the character.
Am I going to use one page?
I'm going to join on the computer.
I'm going to use two page spread, like a comic book.
for more grandiose effect, I guess.
And then you have to do the initial sketch of the character, which is like your structure of a piece. And then you add pen and pencil and whatever details that you need, that's polishing the drawing.
And another thing that both of these have in common is your state of mind because I know I'm one of those teenagers that are really easily distracted.
So if I'm trying to do homework, if I'm trying to do homework and I don't feel like it, I'll try to draw or waste my time.
And then what happens is sometimes I absolutely can't draw or I can't compose at all. And then it's like there's too much on your mind.
You can't focus on what you're supposed to do.
And sometimes if you manage to use your time wisely and work on it, you'll get something out of it, but it doesn't come naturally.
What happens is, if something magical happens, if something natural happens to you, you're able to produce all this beautiful stuff instantly, and then that's what I consider flow, because that's when everything clicks and you're able to do anything.
You feel like you're on top of your game and you can do anything you want.
I'm not going to play my own composition today because although I did finish it, it's way too long.
Instead, I'd like to try something called improvisation. I have here seven note cards, one with each note of the musical alphabet.
and I'd like someone to come up here and choose five. Anyone to come up here and choose five, and then I can make it into some sort of melody and I'll improvise it.
Wow.
Of all the cheer, yeah!
Yes, five cards.
any cry cards.
Okay, one.
Okay.
Two.
Yes.
Okay.
D&F 2 familiar.
you
Okay.
A for effort. Would you mind reading them out in the order that you chose on?
Okay, C, G, B, A, and E.
Thank you very much.
I can't
And what about these?
I won't use them.
Thank you.
I'm going to try to put that in some sort of water.
Okay, that's nice.
So I'm gonna have a moment to think and I'll try to make something out of it.
If you're here today and I'm very happy that you are, you've all heard about how sustainable development will save us from ourselves.
However, when we're not at TED, we are often told that a real sustainability policy agenda is just not feasible, especially in large urban areas like New York City.
And that's because most people with decision-making powers in both the public and the private sector really don't feel as though they're in danger.
The reason why I'm here today in part is because of a dog. And a band and puppy I found back in the rain back in 1998.
She turned out to be a much bigger dog than I anticipated.
Once you came into my life, we were fighting against a huge waste facility, but planned for the Vise River Waterfront. Despite the fact that our small part of New York City was already handled more than 40% of the entire city's commercial waste, a sewage treatment, a sewage sludge, a flant, four power plants, the world's largest food distribution center, as well as other industries that bring more than 60,000 diesel truck trips to the area each week.
The area also has one of the lowest ratios of parks to people in the city.
So when I was contacted by the Parks Department about a $10,000 seed gran initiative to help develop waterfront projects, I thought they were really well-meaning but a bit naive.
I lived in this area all my life and you could not get to the river because of all the lovely facilities that I had mentioned earlier.
Then while jogging with my dog one morning, she pulled me into what I thought was just another illegal dump.
There were weeds and piles of garbage and other stuff that I won't mention here, but she kept dragging me and low and behold that the end of that lot was the river.
I knew that this forgotten little street end abandoned like the dog that brought me there was worth saving.
and I knew it would grow to become the proud beginnings of the community led revitalization of the new South Bronx.
and just like my new dog, it was an idea that got bigger than I'd imagined.
We've garnered much support along the way, and the Hunts Point Riverside Park became the first waterfront park of the South Bronx that had more than 60 years.
We leverage that $10,000 seed grant more than 300 times into a $3 million park.
And in the fall, I'm actually going to exchange marriage vows with my beloved.
Thank you so much.
We feel the problem is right now and have for some time.
Environmental justice for those of you who may not be familiar with the term goes something like this. No community should be saddled with more environmental burdens and less environmental benefits than any other.
Unfortunately, race and class are extremely reliable indicators as to where one might find good stuff like parks and trees and where one might find the bad stuff like power plants and ways facilities.
as a black person in America. I'm twice as likely as a white person to live in an area where air pollution poses the greatest risk of my health.
I am five times more likely to live within walking distance of a power plant or a chemical facility which I do.
These land use decisions created the hostile conditions that lead to problems like obesity, diabetes, and asthma.
Why would someone leave their home to go for a risk walk in a toxic neighborhood?
Our 27% obesity rate is high even for this country and that diabetes comes with it.
One out of four South Bronx children has asthma.
our asthma hospitalization rate is seven times higher than the national average.
these impacts are coming everyone's way.
and we all paid dearly for solid waste costs, health problems associated with pollution and more odiously. The cost of imprisoning our young black and Latino men who possess untold amounts of untap potential.
50% of our residents leave at or below the poverty line 25% of us are unemployed.
Low-income citizens often use emergency room visits as primary care.
This comes at a high cost to taxpayers and produces no proportional benefits.
people and not only to still poor, they are still healthy.
Fortunately, there are many people like me who are striving for solutions that won't compromise the lives of low-income communities of color in the short term and won't destroy us all in the long term.
None of us want that, and we all have that in common.
So what else do we have in common?
First of all, we're all incredibly good lucking.
Graduated high school college postgraduate degrees traveled to interesting places didn't have kids in your early teens financially stable to never been imprisoned.
Okay.
good
But besides being a black woman, I am different from most of you in some other ways.
I watch nearly half of the buildings in my neighborhood burned down.
My big brother, Lini Foughton, Vietnam, only to be gunned down a few blocks for about...
She's a
I grew up with a crackhouse across the street.
Yeah, I'm a poor black child from the ghetto.
These things make me different from you.
But the things we have in common set me apart from most of the people in my community. And I'm in between these two worlds with enough of my heart to fight for justice and the other.
So how do things get so different for us?
In the late 40s, my dad, a poem in port of Son of a slave bought a house in the Hunts Point section of the South Bronx. And a few years later, he married my mom.
at the same at the time the community was a mostly white working class neighborhood.
My dad was not alone.
and its others liked him pursued their own version of the American dream white flight became common in the south Bronx and many cities around the country.
Redlining was used by banks where in certain sections of the city including hours were deemed off limits to any sort of investment.
Many landlords believed it was more profitable to torch their buildings and collect insurance money rather than sell under those conditions. Dead or injured former tenants notwithstanding.
Hunts Point was formally a walk to work community. But now, residents had neither work nor home to walk to.
A national highway construction boom was added to our problems.
in New York State Robert Moses spearheaded an aggressive highway expansion campaign.
One of its primary goals was to make it easier for residents of wealthy communities in Westchester County to go to Manhattan.
the south Bronx which lies in between did not stand a chance.
residents were often given less than a month's notice before their buildings were raised.
people were displaced.
The common perception was it only pimps and pushers and prostitutes were from the South Bronx.
And if you are told from your earliest days that nothing good is going to come from your community that is bad and ugly, how could it not reflect on you?
So now my family's property was worthless. Save for the, there was our home and all we had.
and luckily for me, that home and the love inside of it, along with help from teachers, mentors and friends along the way, was enough.
Now why is a story important?
because from a planning perspective, economic degradation, but gets environmental degradation, which gets social degradation.
The disinvestment that began in the 1960s set the stage for all the environmental injustices that were to come.
antiquated zoning and land use regulations are still used to this day to continue putting polluting facilities in my neighborhood.
Are these factors taken into consideration when land use policy is decided?
what costs are associated with these decisions.
and who pays?
who profit?
Does anything justify the local community goes through?
This was planning in quotes that did not have our best interest in mind.
Once we realized that, we decided it was time to do our own planning.
That small park I told you about earlier was the first stage of building a greenway movement in the South Bronx.
I wrote a 1 and quarter million dollar federal transportation grant to design the plan for a water fund S. Flanado with dedicated on street bike paths.
physical improvements help inform public policy regarding traffic safety, placement of waste and other facilities, which have done probably don't compromise the community's quality of life.
they provide opportunities for to be more physically active as well as local economic development.
I think bike shops do stands.
We secure $20 million to build first phase projects.
This is Lafayette Avenue, and that's redesigned by Matthews Nealson landscape architects.
And once this path is constructed, it'll connect the south Bronx with more than 400 acres of Randall's Island Park.
right now we're separated by about 25 feet of water but this length will change that.
as we nurture the natural environment, it's abundance will give us back even more.
We run a project called Bronx and Ecological Stewardship Training, which provides job training in the fields of ecological restoration so that folks from our community have the skills to compete for these well-paying jobs.
little by little we're seeding the area with green collar jobs that has both the people that have both a financial and personal stake in their environment.
The Sardin Expressway is an underutilized relic of a Robert Moses era, built with no regard for the neighborhoods that were divided by it.
Even during rush hour it goes virtually unused.
The community created an alternative transportation plan that allows for the removal of the highway.
We have the opportunity now to bring together all the stakeholders to reinvision how this 28 acres can be better utilized for parkland, affordable housing and local economic development.
We also built the city's first green and cool roof demonstration project on top of our offices.
Cool roofs are highly reflective surfaces that don't absorb solar heat and pass it on to the building or atmosphere.
green roofs or soil and living plants.
both can be used instead of petroleum-based roofing materials that absorb heat, contribute to urban heat, ion effect, and degrade under the sun which we in turn breathe.
Greener is also retained up to 75% of rainfall so they reduce the city's need to fund costly end of pipes to lose which incidentally are often located in environmental justice communities like mine.
and they provide have attached for our little friends. So...
So cool.
Anyway, the demonstration project is a springboard for our own greener installation business, bringing jobs as sustainable economic activity to the South
I know Chris told us not to do pitches up here but since I have all of your attention we need investors
end of pitch.
It's better to ask for forgiveness than permission.
Katrina.
the South Bronx and New Orleans and Ithward had a lot in common.
both are largely populated by poor people of color, both hot beds of cultural innovation, thank hip hop and jazz.
both the waterfront communities that host both industries and residents and close proximity to one another.
In the post-Catrina era, we have still more in common.
we're at best ignored and maligned and abused at worse by negligent regulatory agencies, pernicious zoning and lacks governmental accountability.
Neither the destruction of the Night Ward nor the South Bronx was inevitable.
but we have emerged with valuable lessons and about how to dig ourselves out.
We are more than simply national symbols of urban blight or problems to be solved by empty campaign promises of presidents coming gone.
Now we'll be let the Gulf Coast language for a decade or two like the South Bronx did.
or will we take proactive steps and learn from the homegrown resource of grassroots, active, and born of desperation out in communities like mine.
Now, listen, I do not expect individuals corporations or government to make the world a better place because it is right or moral.
this presentation today only represents some of what I've been through.
I could tie me a little bit.
You've no clue.
but I'll tell you later if you want to know.
But I know it's the bottom line or one's perception of it that motivates people in the end.
I'm interested in what I like to call the triple bottom line that sustainable development can produce.
Developments have the potential to create positive returns for all concert. The developers, government, and the community where these projects go up.
a present that's not happening in New York City.
And we are operating with a comprehensive urban planning deficit.
A parade of government subsidies is going to propose big box and stadium developments in the South Bronx. But there is a scant coordination between city agencies on how to deal with a cumulative effects of increased traffic, pollution, solid waste, and the impacts on open space.
and their approaches to local economic and job development are so lame, it's not even funny.
because on top of that, the richest, the world's richest sports team is replacing the house that Ruth built by destroying two well-loved community parks.
Now we'll have even less than that stat I told you about earlier.
and although less than 25% of South Bronx residents own cars, these projects include thousands of new parking spaces yet zip in terms of public transit.
Now what's missing from the larger debate is a comprehensive cost benefit analysis between not fixing a healthy environment-free challenge community versus incorporating structural sustainable changes.
My agency is working closely with Columbia University and others to shine a line on these issues.
Now, let's get this straight. I am not any development.
ours is a city, not a wilderness preserve.
and I've embraced my inner capitalists.
But I don't have... probably all having anything. Haven't you need to.
So I don't have a problem with developers making money.
There's enough precedent out there to show that a sustainable community friendly development can still make a fortune.
I know fellow techsters, Bill Madonna, and Amri Love, and both heroes of mine, by the way, you know, have shown that you can actually do that.
I do have a problem with developments that hyper exploit politically vulnerable communities for profit.
that it continues is a shame upon us all because we're all responsible for the future that we create.
But one of the things I do to remind myself of greater possibilities is to learn from visionaries and other cities.
This is my version of globalization.
Let's take Bogota.
and the poor Latinos surrounded by runaway gun violence and drug trafficking, a reputation not unlike that of the South Bronx.
However, this city was blessed in the late 1990s with a highly influential mayor named Enrique Benialosa.
He looked at the demographics.
few Bogotanios own cars yet a huge portion of the city's resources was dedicated to serving.
If you're a mayor, you can do something about that.
His administration narrowed key municipal thoroughfares from five lanes to three outlawed parking on those streets. Expanded pedestrian walkways and bike lanes. Created public pa-lauses. I'm created one of the most efficient bus mass transit systems in the entire world.
for his brilliant efforts, he was nearly impeached.
But as people began to see that they were being put first on issues, reflecting their day-to-day lives, incredible things happened.
people stop the littering.
crime rates dropped because the streets were alive with people.
his administration detects several typical urban problems at one time and on a third world budget at that.
We have no excuse in this country. I'm sorry.
But the bottom line is there. People for a agenda was not meant to penalize those who could actually afford cars, but rather to provide opportunities for all Bogotanios to participate in the city's research.
you, however, are blessed with the gift of influence.
That's why you're here and why you value the information we exchange.
Use your influence in support of comprehensive sustainable change everywhere.
Don't just talk about it at TED.
This is a nationwide policy agenda I'm trying to build and as you all know, politics are personal.
Help me make green the new black.
Help me make sustainability sexy.
make it a part of your dinner and cocktail conversations.
Help me fight for environmental and economic justice.
Support investments with a triple bottom line return.
help me democratize sustainability by bringing everyone to the table and assisting the comprehensive planning can be addressed everywhere.
Oh, I got a little more touch.
Listen, when I spoke to Mr. Gore the other day after breakfast, I asked him how environmental justice activists were going to be included in his new marketing strategy.
His response was a grant program.
I don't think he understood that I wasn't asking for funding.
I was making him an offer.
They don't get me wrong, we need money.
But grassroots groups are needed at the table during the decision-making process.
of the 90% of the energy that Mr. Gore reminded us that we waste every day. Don't add wasting our energy intelligence and hard earned experience to that count.
Please don't waste me.
By working together, we can become one of those small, rapidly growing groups of individuals who actually have the audacity and courage to believe that we actually can change the world.
We might have come to this conference from very, very different stages in life, but believe me. We all share one incredibly powerful thing.
We have nothing to lose and everything to gain.
Ciao bello!
Thank you so much Chris.
It's truly a great honor to have the opportunity to come to this stage twice. I'm extremely grateful.
I have been blown away by this conference and I want to thank all of you for the many nice comments about what I had to say the other night.
And I say that sincerely, partly because I need that.
Put yourselves in my position.
I flew on Air Force 2 for eight years.
Now I have to take off my shoes or boots to get on an airplane.
This is a true story. Every bit of this is true.
Soon after, Tiproni left the White House. We were driving from our home in Nashville to a little farm we have 50 miles east of Nashville.
during ourselves.
I know that sounds like a little thing to you, but I looked in the review mirror and all of a sudden it just hit me.
There was no motorcade back there.
You've heard of Phantom Lim pain.
This was a rented Ford Tourist.
But it was dinner time. And we started looking for a place to eat.
We're on ice.
We got to exit 238, 11 intensive
We got off the X to start looking what we found to show on his restaurant.
Locals, family, restaurant, chain for those of you don't know it.
We went in and sat down at the booth and the waitress came over, it made a big emotion over, Tipper.
She took our order and then went to the couple in the booth next to us and she Lord her voice so much I'd really strained to hear what you were saying
The very next day, continuing a totally true story, I got on a G5 to fly to Africa to make a speech in Nigeria in the city of Legos on the topic of energy.
And I began the speech by telling them the story of what had just happened the day before in Nashville.
And I told it pretty much the same way I've just shared it with you, uh, to an hour driving ourselves, shoneys, low-cost family restorone chain with the man said they laughed.
I gave my speech and went back out of the airport to fly back home.
I fell asleep on the plane until during the middle of the night we landed on the Azoor's Islands for refilling.
I woke up, they opened the door, I went out to get some fresh air and I looked and there was a man running across the runway.
and he was waving a piece of paper and he was yelling. Call Washington.
Call Washington. And I thought to myself, the middle of the night, middle of the Atlantic, what in the world could be wrong in Washington?
And then I remember it could be a bunch of things.
But what it turned out to be was that my staff was extremely upset because one of the wire services in Nigeria had already written a story about my speech and it had already been printed in all across the United States of America.
Printed Monoray at Check.
So you're gonna talk about information ecology.
But I was thinking that since I planned to make a lifelong habit of coming back to Ted, maybe I could talk about that another time.
I want to start with a couple of, I'm going to show some new images and I'm going to recapitulate just four or five.
Now, oh, the slideshow.
I update the slideshow every time I give it.
I add new images because I learn more about it every time I give it.
It's like beach combing, you know?
Every time the tide comes in and out, you find some more shells.
just in the last two days we got the new temperature records in January.
This is just for the United States of America.
Starckel average for January is 31 degrees. Last month was 39.5 degrees.
Now, I know that you wanted some more bad news about the environment. I'm kidding.
But these are the recapitulation slides and then I'm going to go into a new material about what you can do.
But I wanted to elaborate on a couple of these.
Efficiency in induced electricity and in use of all energy is the low hanging fruit.
efficiency and conservation. It's not a cost. It's a profit.
The sign is wrong.
It's not negative, it's positive.
These are investments that pay for themselves.
but they are also very effective in deflecting our path.
cars and trucks. I talked about that in the slideshow, but I want you to put it in perspective.
It's an easy visible target of concern and it should be, but there is more global warming pollution that comes from buildings than from cars and trucks.
Carson Trucks are very significant, and we have the lowest standards in the world.
And so we should address that.
but it's part of the puzzle.
Other transportation is efficiency is as important as cars and trucks.
Renewables at the current levels of technological efficiency can make this much difference.
and with what, uh, vinoid and some, uh, and, uh, John Doran, others, many of you here, a lot of people directly involved in this, this wedge is going to grow much more rapidly than the current projection shows it.
not quite there yet.
OK.
Now, what can you do?
reduce emissions in your home.
Most of these expenditures are also profitable.
Insulation, better design.
by Green Electricity, where you can.
I mentioned automobiles.
Use light rail.
figure out some of the other options that are much better.
It's important.
Be a green consumer.
You have choices with everything you buy between things that have a harsh effect or a much less harsh effect on the global climate crisis.
Consider this, make a decision to live a carbon neutral life.
Those of you who are good at branding, I'd love to get your advice and help on how to say this in a way that connects with the most people.
It is easier than you think.
It really is.
It means it means reduce your carbon dioxide emissions with the full range of choices that you make and then purchase or acquire offsets for the remainder that you have not completely reduced.
And what it means is elaborated at
is a carbon capillator.
Participant productions convened with my active involvement, the leading software writers in the world on this arcane science of carbon calculation to construct a consumer-friendly carbon calculator.
you can very precisely calculate what your CO2 emissions are and then you will be given options to reduce.
and in, by the time the movie comes out in May, this will be updated to 2.0 and we will have click through purchases of offsets.
Next, consider making your business carbon neutral.
Again, some of us have done that, and it's not as hard as you think.
integrate climate solutions into all of your innovations, whether you are from the technology or entertainment or design and architecture community.
invest sustainably.
Major mentioned this.
Listen, if you have invested money with managers who you compensate on the basis of their annual performance, don't ever again complain about quarterly report CEO management.
Become a catalyst of change.
teach others, learn about it, talk about it.
The movie comes out, the movie is a movie version of the slideshow that it gave two nights ago, except it's a lot more entertaining.
and it comes out in May.
Many of you here have the opportunity to ensure that a lot of people see it. Consider sending somebody to
Pick well.
and it's how they link together.
And so I'm going to be conducting a course this summer for a group of people that are nominated by different folks to come and then give it in mass and communities all across the country and we're going to update the slideshow for all of them every single week to keep it right on the cutting edge. Working with Larry Lessig, it will be somewhere in that process posted with tools and limited use copyrights so that young people can remix it and do it in their own way. We're in anybody get the idea that you ought to...
We need Republicans as well.
become politically active.
Make our democracy work the way it's supposed to work.
Why? As long as the United States is out of the world system, it's not a closed system.
Once it becomes a closed system with U.S. participation, then everybody who's on a board of directors, how many people here serve on the board of directors of a corporation?
We have to change the minds of the American people.
because presently the politicians do not have permission to do what needs to be done.
It's now repetition of short hot button 30 second 28 second television ads.
We have to buy a lot of those ads.
That's really true.
I said the other night and I'll repeat now this is not a political issue. Again the Republicans here, this shouldn't be partisan. You have more influence than some of us who are Democrats do.
just this, but connected to the ideas that are here to bring more coherence to them.
We are one.
Thank you very much, I appreciate it.
