I still have this TV image in my mind.
I could see the ball falling down.
I was so terrified.
really I was crying a lot.
Someone who knew my father and my mom grab my hand and he said, let's go.
school.
And it was like, where am I?
Mom, my mom, my mom. During nice wood here, shards, wood here, guns.
elections will suppose to happen.
We had young people going to the street, they were having strides.
and most of them people died.
We voted a fiesta
It was overloaded.
People were running for their life.
That is how I ifly from Somalia.
My mom, El Nisley.
Nobody told the highway.
The fact that we did not go to school, we couldn't go to the market, we were just stuck home. Made me realize that if I got an option to go for something better, I could just go for it and have a better future.
globally displaced people in the world that been increasing
Now they are almost 60 million people displaced in the world.
and unfortunately, it doesn't stop.
I think the humanitarian community is starting to realize from research and reality that we're talking about a much more permanent problem.
These students, they need a tertiary education degree that they can use.
If the students are living now in Rwanda, if they get relocated, still they can continue their study.
still their degree is useful, whatever they are.
Audacious project was to really test Southern New Hampshire University's global education movements, ability to scale, to bring bachelor's degrees and pathways to employment, to refugees and those who would otherwise not have access to higher education.
این باستی برد از رفیچی باستان تو فادم ایدی کشونان تو میک میکاریا
i mnemisayada atensayada, i m from Somalia.
我当时我早上的工作室在时,我会在买电话中
Now, I am doing my bachelor degree with...
my name is Nurea, don't bring the savvy day
I'm doing my brush-loved arts in communications with a concentration in business.
We are serving students across five different countries, Lebanon, Kenya, Malawi, Rwanda, and South Africa.
really proud to have 800 AA grads to over 400 bachelor's graduate and nearly a thousand students enrolled right now.
So the magic of this is that we're addressing refugee lives as they exist.
There are no classes.
there are no lectures.
There are no due dates.
There are no final exams.
This degree is competency-based and not time-bound.
You choose when you start your project.
YouTube is how you're going to approach it.
When you open the platform, that's where you can see the goals.
Under each go, we can find projects.
When you open the projects, you get the competencies that you have to master, directions and overview of the project.
projects. The secret sauce of SNHU is combining that competency based online learning with the in-person learning that we do with partners to provide all the wraparound supports.
That includes academic coaching.
It means psychosocial support, medical support, and it's also that back-end employment support that's really resulting in the 95% graduation, the 88% employment.
um, the social media management intern
It's related to the communications diagram doing.
I've learned so many things out of the projects and in the real world.
The structured internship is really an opportunity for students to practice their skills and for us to create connections between that internship and a later job opportunity.
This is a model that really stops putting time and university policies and procedures at the center and instead puts the student at the center.
The Jumodil is a big way to shake the tree.
You
you check today to the traditional way of having tertiary education here.
It can transform the lives of students from this vulnerable and refugee communities.
If I get the degree, I can just come back and work everywhere that I want.
I can go for masters, confidently in English, which is something that I would not have dreamed of before.
And I have the confidence and the skills required to actually go out and just talk to the workplace without having to fear that I can't make it.
I always wanted to work with the community.
I want to establish an unprofitable
We advocate for women education.
I want to be a someone who is like Ambasha, encourage them to learn and tell them it is never too late.
It's a dream.
