 I still have this TV image in my mind.
 I could see the ball falling down.
 I was so terrified.
 really I was crying a lot.
 Someone who knew my father and my mom grab my hand and he said, let's go.
 school.
 And it was like, where am I?
 Mom, my mom, my mom. During nice wood here, shards, wood here, guns.
 elections will suppose to happen.
 We had young people going to the street, they were having strides.
 and most of them people died.
 We voted a fiesta
 It was overloaded.
 People were running for their life.
 That is how I ifly from Somalia.
 My mom, El Nisley.
 Nobody told the highway.
 The fact that we did not go to school, we couldn't go to the market, we were just stuck home. Made me realize that if I got an option to go for something better, I could just go for it and have a better future.
 globally displaced people in the world that been increasing
 Now they are almost 60 million people displaced in the world.
 and unfortunately, it doesn't stop.
 I think the humanitarian community is starting to realize from research and reality that we're talking about a much more permanent problem.
 These students, they need a tertiary education degree that they can use.
 If the students are living now in Rwanda, if they get relocated, still they can continue their study.
 still their degree is useful, whatever they are.
 Audacious project was to really test Southern New Hampshire University's global education movements, ability to scale, to bring bachelor's degrees and pathways to employment, to refugees and those who would otherwise not have access to higher education.
 این باستی برد از رفیچی باستان تو فادم ایدی کشونان تو میک میکاریا
 i mnemisayada atensayada, i m from Somalia.
我当时我早上的工作室在时,我会在买电话中
 Now, I am doing my bachelor degree with...
 my name is Nurea, don't bring the savvy day
 I'm doing my brush-loved arts in communications with a concentration in business.
 We are serving students across five different countries, Lebanon, Kenya, Malawi, Rwanda, and South Africa.
 really proud to have 800 AA grads to over 400 bachelor's graduate and nearly a thousand students enrolled right now.
 So the magic of this is that we're addressing refugee lives as they exist.
 There are no classes.
 there are no lectures.
 There are no due dates.
 There are no final exams.
 This degree is competency-based and not time-bound.
 You choose when you start your project.
 YouTube is how you're going to approach it.
 When you open the platform, that's where you can see the goals.
 Under each go, we can find projects.
 When you open the projects, you get the competencies that you have to master, directions and overview of the project.
 projects. The secret sauce of SNHU is combining that competency based online learning with the in-person learning that we do with partners to provide all the wraparound supports.
 That includes academic coaching.
 It means psychosocial support, medical support, and it's also that back-end employment support that's really resulting in the 95% graduation, the 88% employment.
 um, the social media management intern
 It's related to the communications diagram doing.
 I've learned so many things out of the projects and in the real world.
 The structured internship is really an opportunity for students to practice their skills and for us to create connections between that internship and a later job opportunity.
 This is a model that really stops putting time and university policies and procedures at the center and instead puts the student at the center.
 The Jumodil is a big way to shake the tree.
 You
 you check today to the traditional way of having tertiary education here.
 It can transform the lives of students from this vulnerable and refugee communities.
 If I get the degree, I can just come back and work everywhere that I want.
 I can go for masters, confidently in English, which is something that I would not have dreamed of before.
 And I have the confidence and the skills required to actually go out and just talk to the workplace without having to fear that I can't make it.
 I always wanted to work with the community.
 I want to establish an unprofitable
 We advocate for women education.
 I want to be a someone who is like Ambasha, encourage them to learn and tell them it is never too late.
 It's a dream.
 June 8, 2010. Russ and Wilson, fourth round picked to the Colorado Rockies baseball.
 I'm fired up, where the highest moments of my life.
 Every kid's dream to be drafted by a major league baseball team.
 June 8, 2010.
 June 9, 2010.
 And that passes away.
 High to the high to low to low.
 Just like that.
 My dad laying his death bed just tears running down my face and you know what I do next.
 My mind racing memories, flashbacks, moments, early mornings getting up, taking grounders and throwing, speedouts and deep posts routes to my brother and my dad to early morning car rides to AU Baseball to my dad being the third base coach.
 Fast forward to the championship high of winning a Super Bowl holding up the Lombardi trophy and then motions an excitement of it all and blew and green confetti all over the place and knowing that you just want the Super Bowl to a year later the pressure of the game and the ball and the one-yard line and this is the chance to win the game and it doesn't work.
 and however many millions and millions of people all over the world watching
 and having to walk to the median, what do I say next? What do I do? What do I think?
 being married at a young age and just coming out of college and everything else to short the after marriage not working out and realizing you know what
 Life happens.
 Life happens, life happens to all of us.
 loss of family members divorce, fear pain, depression, concerns, worries.
 When you think about being super positive, yes, I'm positive by nature, but positivity, it doesn't always work because when you're down 16, nothing, NFC championship game, if people are like Russ, we're not going to be able to win this game. It's not a great situation right now. When you're facing cancer, when you have things you have to deal with or finances and this and that, how do we deal with it?
 It's hard to be positive in the midst of it all.
 And what I definitely knew was this, a negativity works a hundred percent of the time.
 The negativity was gonna get me nowhere.
 I start saying to myself, new or his mercies every morning, new beginnings, new starts.
 and despite hardship and pain and worries and wanting to get through it and how do I do this? I start thinking about a car.
 You know you guys have drive a car and get stick shift and you want to shift to neutral?
 You go from first year to second year all the way to fifth.
 You gotta know how to shift to neutral.
 I needed a shift in neutral immediately before I crashed.
 sitting there after the Super Bowl, I had a decision to make. Well, I let this define my career
 I'll let it define my life.
 I'll know.
 What I found out was this, the mindset of the skill.
 It can be taught and learned.
 I started 10 years ago, training my mind with this guy named Trevor Moe at my mental conditioning coach.
 been with me for 10 years and we've been best friends and partners ever since.
 As athletes we train the body, we train ourselves to be able to run fast and throw farther and jump higher and do these different things. But why don't we train our mind?
 What do you want your life to have like?
 right now, you know, talk about it, say it.
 What's our language? What is our language look like? Watch these highlights for us of when you're in your best moments.
 What does that look like?
 And be that. Live that. Sound like that.
 the best free throws shoes they don't worry about the shot they just miss
 They think about this shot, this put, this throw, this first down.
 Then I met this kid Milton Wright, 19 years old. He had cancer three different times.
 This day when I went to see Milton Milton was frustrated, well, so I'm done. I don't want to do this anymore. It's my time to go and say Milton, I start telling the story about my dad and how my dad used to say, son, why not you?
 why not you graduate early? Why not you play pro football on pro baseball?
 Why not you? Why not you? Why not you? Why not you?
 If you try to self-therapy and you try this and it doesn't work, you know, you won't remember. So Milton got a smile on his face and he said, you know what, you're exactly right.
 Yes, I do have cancer, Russ.
 But I can either let this kill me, not just physically, like an also let it kill me emotionally and mentally.
 And I have a choice right now in the midst of the problem and the midst of the storm to decide to overcome. One of the questions I always get asked about neutral thinking is this, does that mean I don't have any emotion? I always say absolutely not.
 Yeah, we have emotions. We have real life situations. We have things to deal with.
 But what you have to be able to do is to stay focused on the moment and to not be super emotional.
 It's okay to have emotions, but don't be emotional.
 When people look at me, they see that on the highest paid player in the NFL, they see that I have the girl in Sierra, that I have the family in this and that.
 But I still have real life situations.
 We all
 We all have sadness and loss in depression and worries and fear.
 I didn't just get here.
 What's the truth? And how do I come through this better?
 And that's really kind of how my mind started shifting.
 It was not just on the success of it all or the failure of it. It was on the process. What is the next step? How do I do this right here right now?
 You have a choice to make in life.
 And for me, when I was young and I didn't have much, I made a choice.
 I made a choice that I was going to believe that great things were going to happen that I was going to have my mindset right and I was going to have the right language and the right things to think about which helped prepare me for the day.
 because I'm just human.
 I just have a ability to throw the ball a long way and run around and make some cool and fun throws and make some people smile.
 But the reality is that I still have pressure. I still have worries. I still have fears. I still have things that happen.
 still have laws.
 positivity can be dangerous.
 But what always works is negativity.
 and never want to live in negativity. So I stayed in neutral.
 I kept my shift in neutral.
 And so that's why I lived. That's why I've been living ever since.
